I want to go through these five habits
that make people instantly dislike you
yes yes so these are tiny little things
that a lot of people do without even
realizing that they're doing this sort
of stuff first one is oh my God so true
Charlie hoopert is a leading expert in
Charisma and confidence his insights and
practical techniques have helped
millions of people Master communication
and body language to thrive in both
personal and professional relationships
how important is charisma and confidence
it's perhaps the most underrated piece
of success and it's the ability to speak
with conviction the ability to influence
someone ability to connect with people I
mean look at Donald Trump he talked his
way into the literal presidency of the
United States of America it's so
incredibly powerful and is it something
that you can learn yeah and I'm a
testament to that because growing up I
was invisible not making new friends not
forming connections I wasn't dating
because there was this fear that I would
get hurt where did that come from part
of it to the experiences that I had one
of them was being sexually abused and I
felt disgusted with
myself um
I was struggling and frustrated with the
compensations I'd made as a result of it
and so I learned all the tips and tricks
to develop confidence and became a
completely different person and we're
going to go through all of them amazing
so there's prey versus Predator movement
which is tremendously valuable for First
Impressions and then there's the
charismatic traits which women are
attracted to the 60c ACT to establish
trust and respect and then I have six
charismatic mindsets for success and
there's plenty more listen I've got time
okay so let's break it down
I have been forced into a bet with my
team we're about to hit 10 million
subscribers on YouTube which is our
biggest Milestone ever thanks to all of
you and we want to have a massive party
for the people that have worked on this
show for years behind the scenes so they
said to me Steve for every new
subscriber we get in the next 30 days
can $1 be given to our celebration fund
for the entire team and I've agreed to
the bet so if you want to say thank you
to the team behind the scenes at di of
here all you've got to do is hit the
Subscribe button so actually this is the
first time I'm going to tell you not to
subscribe because it might end up
costing me an
[Applause]
[Music]
awful
Charlie hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds and hundreds of millions of
people have benefited from your work and
tens of thousands of people have been
through your University learning about
something if you had to explain in your
own words what it is that you're doing
for those people in a simple way what
would you how would you say that take
all the situations where you're
interacting with another person whether
it's at your work dating friends and
groups and take the times that you're
feeling that you're not grounded in that
sense of confidence that you maybe have
when you're sitting at home on the couch
with your friend or your family and
bring the best version of yourself to
those situations I think a lot of people
also want flowing conversations they
want to feel like themselves they want
to be the person that is respected and
is admired when they walk into a room
they want other people to notice them
that's one of the big ones that we hear
from guys is they want to be the person
that anytime they enter a room that
women and men take notice of them it
usually is an acute thing so a lot of
people show up because there's a girl
that they liked and it's not going well
or something like that or they went out
for a promotion and somebody that they
felt was less qualified that them wound
up getting the job so they come in with
a very
acute social situation that they would
like to change they'd like to get the
girl they' like to get the job theyd
like to be the leader in their friend
group but when people have gone through
the course what I see is they speak more
about a a sense of joy in life and
confidence because I think that if you
feel disconnected from people there
actually read a thing this morning that
some guy said you know I came here and I
started applying your ideas and I got
more tips at my job as a waiter which is
really cool but also I felt as if I'd
fallen into nihilism like I was just
things didn't matter anymore and my
ability to connect with people is
Shifting that for me I feel more
connected less nihilistic it's
interesting because when people hear
words like phrases like body language
and Charisma and confidence they sound
like tips and tricks and stuff but when
I think about the impact that these
things have had on my own life when I
think about even presidential elections
and how our society is is designed and
who Rises to the top and who doesn't so
much of it seems to depend on whether
you understand naturally or through
learning the skills how to be
charismatic confident how to sell how to
get someone else in some situation to
believe you to buy into what you have to
say um so I guess my question to you is
how important is it like and someone
that has the skills that you you teach
people versus someone that doesn't how
much of a trajectory shift is that going
to be do you think on their on their
life to me so there's the external
question of what is it going to allow
you to achieve in the world and then
there there's the internal question of
what is your subjective experience of
your life starting with the internal to
me it's almost everything like you're if
you feel disconnected from the world it
is very very hard to feel good no matter
how much money you have no matter how
much your six-pack abs are working for
you like even if you have agulation and
you have Fame but you feel disconnected
from the people in your life it is very
hard to feel good on the external side I
think it's tremendously underrated and I
think this is why people didn't see
Donald Trump coming because does he have
the best policies does he have the best
record is he of any of these things he
is clearly someone who has gotten to
where he has by talking he talked his
way into the literal presidency of the
United States of America and if I look
just at my own life at people who were
advancing at work and then when I
started focusing on this stuff it was
not the best analyst there was a guy who
was a better analyst than me and he did
not get the off trck promotion that I
got and it was just because I'd made
closer connections with the president of
of the company than he had and so I
think it's wildly underrated I think a
huge myth that people get is that if you
get good grades do what is asked of you
in the job description are generally
kind and friendly and speak honestly
that things are just going to work out
for you but there is a missing piece
which is do other people connect with
you and like you and want you to succeed
and I think it's perhaps the most
underrated piece of success which is why
I put all my attention there this wasn't
like a play at making a lot of money or
having a big YouTube channel it was the
highest leverage point that I felt and
experienced in my own life and is it
something that you can learn that is
yeah I said I said there was a big myth
this is probably the first or second
biggest myth is that you can't learn it
and that I believe that for what 18
years of my life so the the first
portion of my life was Charisma is being
able to throw a football better than the
other kids right Charisma is just the
thing that you have at 13 that I
definitely didn't have and it was only
around 18 1920 that I realized that the
way that I approached people in
conversations
had a dramatic impact on the responses
that I got so it is most definitely
something you can learn I feel like I'm
a testament to that and you know people
have gone through the course uh also
feel that and if someone hasn't seen
your YouTube channel what is it you're
doing on that YouTube channel so say
that you know we've got someone
listening now and they've never heard of
your your channel before can you explain
exactly what you've done on that channel
how long you've done it for and how many
situations you've looked at over the
last decade yeah so basically what I
would do is I would look at moments it
started with a Bill Clinton debate that
was the first video that I ever did and
there's this debate moment where Bill
Clinton and George Bush Senior are
having a town hall so it's them
communicating directly with people and
it's known as the moment that Bill
Clinton won the election and it's him
going up to this woman and just she asks
some question about politics or the
thing and he goes up and he says how
does this impact you and he looks her
dead in the eye and you could tell she
just she's feeling it she's connected
with him and he gives his answer so it's
us breaking down those sorts of
interactions some of them are in
politics some of them are on talk shows
and some of them are scripted TV shows
where I'm just saying hey this is
obviously a script but it would work in
real life if you did it like Jon Snow
did in Game of Thrones or something so
we use that sort of as the hook because
you know a lot of people weren't looking
Charisma was not a topic that anyone was
interested in 10 years ago so we would
hook people with Game of Thrones or this
famous person but the content of it
would be how to handle a group
interaction or how to lead more
effectively and these were things that I
wasn't necessarily learning from these
videos but I was learning elsewhere in
my life and then commenting on what I
saw in these videos and that really
connected with our audience and it's
helped us get I think 6.8 million
subscribers at this point it's
incredible and it's actually such an
unbelievably powerful way to do it by
showing both real world examples but
also fictional examples and I was even
watch watching you break down certain
interviews that the famous um Jordan
Peterson interview with Kath Kathy
Newman Kathy Newman that one's great and
you break down exactly what's going on
on kind of both sides and how Jordan
ultimately ends up winning that argument
by um kind of holding his position and
Kathy trying to put words into his mouth
Etc all of those things but you break it
down you break down moments from history
moments that we all know from movies and
tell us exactly what's going on in terms
of like human connection conversation
persuasion leadership influence in those
situations incredibly fascinating so
let's talk about you yeah because people
will look at you now sat here and
they'll think this is a guy that's
always had confident you're a good
looking guy you're someone that is
clearly a great conversationalist you
exude Charisma but if we were to wind
back I know that that's not always been
the case yeah yeah so take me back you
did your research uh so I grew up
extremely shy and still am today in
introvert I mean you could probably see
if you flash five or six minutes back to
the beginning of this interview like I
started off nervous I feel very
comfortable now but my default state is
one of shyness reservedness and
nervousness and so that was just how I
was for the long time and when it came
time to graduate high school they have
these superlatives that they would give
out and I had a class of about 500
people and my superlative was most
likely to break out of a shell in
college so I was well known but I was
well known for not saying a lot so
people like didn't know me and then
voted for me as the person who one day
would show up and reveal themselves to
the world I suppose that didn't happen I
didn't break out of my shell in college
at all uh I continued to do the same I
had a small small group of friends I
wasn't like uh dating or anything like
that and then it was only when I was
about 19 years old that I studied abroad
and had gotten so sick of the experience
for me at that time in my life of having
a massive Crush for usually a year
forming a entire relationship in my head
that we would one day have and then
having that not materialize because they
weren't interested or if they were
interested I could quickly talk them out
of being interested just by my general
awkwardness that had happened so many
times that I was done with it and
frustrated so when I went abroad I made
it a mission to figure out what was
going on and shift it and it was
actually very helpful and when people
ask me how do you begin to change these
things in yourself shifting your
environment is so impactful probably the
one of the most impactful things because
what you don't realize is that your
friend and family who love you very much
tend to not like shifts that you make to
your habits particularly the way that
you socialize with other people but when
I gave myself the freedom of being
abroad I tried everything you know I
worked on my eye contact I read every
book and we just run little personal
experiments some of which didn't go well
there was one period of time I remember
where the experiment was big eyes and so
I'd like walk around so nice to meet you
and you immediately you immediately
recoil your head I swear I did that
probably for a week until somebody said
dude what are you doing with your eyes
stop really yeah he was a good friend um
I appreciate him for that but it was
just many experiments and I started them
while I was studying abroad and I
continue when I came back but by the
time that I did come back six months or
a year later uh the word in the college
campus was like what happened to you you
are a completely different person you
are outgoing and you seem capable of
talking particularly to women at this
case and then friends were all of a
sudden asking me what should I do and so
that started sort of a second phase of
my life where this was the primary focus
day-to-day you know after like eating
drinking and maybe getting some money in
order to pay my bills other people how
to influence them how to interact with
them how to get better friendships how
to talk my way into a job you know all
of those sorts of things became the
primary focus for me just to spend a
second going back to how what your sort
of internal monologue was like through
the awkward years of your life how did
you how did you feel and what did you
think of yourself like if IID asked you
what do you think of yourself back then
and you were to answer it honestly what
would you
say honestly which I couldn't have done
but I will tell you um ashamed would
have been what I would have said and I
didn't like I didn't know this about
myself
but like I didn't have the right to
speak up like it people wouldn't have
liked it I had I remember I had one guy
and it didn't even bother me because I I
suppose it connected with how I felt but
he said Charlie you're so normal that
you're invisible and I think that was by
Design like blending in became a way to
be unseen and a way to be safe and I
wasn't picked on you know like all of
those things never happen just because I
was there but not in a way that was
noticeable the problem with that is yeah
you're safe you don't get picked on
nothing happens but also nothing happens
right you're not making new friends
you're not forming connections other
people were forming new groups and
expanding and I I was not so there was a
huge disconnect between how I felt in a
more public setting and how I felt in
more intimate private settings and did
you look at some other people who didn't
seem to have those challenges as I don't
know biologically gifted yeah freaks of
nature is that what you thought oh yeah
totally there was there was clearly it
didn't the thought that something could
shift in me to get me to have a
different response didn't occur until I
was 18 or 19 years old and I think
that's a a really important shift for a
lot of people is where you start
recognizing that it's on you it's your
responsibility and the way that I put it
at the time was it's always my fault so
what I carried from 19 to say 28 or 29
was if this interaction with you and I
or anyone doesn't go well there's
something that I could have done
differently in order to make it go well
and so that gave me this fuel to
constantly adjust because I was going
okay that one didn't go great what could
I have done where did it break down it
was three minutes into conversation but
I felt they sort of dropped off when I
started answering that question about my
boring job in a really boring way so let
me in this next interaction talk about
my job in a way that is a bit more
exciting and so I was really spending a
lot of time obsessively reviewing and
talking with my co-founder and best
friend at the time like what happened
where did it break down what could we
try differently and then running these
experiments it was genuinely an
obsession and a thrilling one at at that
what was the difference between the the
guy who went on holiday that day on the
plane versus the guy that came back in
terms of skills or knowledge what was
the actual difference in the person
a willingness to stick your neck out
there was the big thing so one of one of
the primary things that I did when I
went abroad was ask questions that I
otherwise would have kept to myself so I
was in a town a small town of Costa Rica
called Aradia and I showed up I don't
speak Spanish right so there's even more
reason to to oh my gosh I could make a
mistake and it could go really bad and I
could be bumbling but I made a rule that
I was going to ask if I didn't know
where my classroom was I wasn't going to
like sit with my piece of paper and then
try to work it out on the map I was
going to ask a human and when it came
time to figure out where there was a
good restaurant or a good place to go
out at night I was always going to ask
someone and thanks to that habit as well
as the friendliness of Latin
people that extended my comfort zone and
gave me a number of experiences of you
put yourself out there something magical
happens so that that is the easiest tip
that I can give is one more sentence so
when people ask me like what what is
something that I can do to work on my
Charisma I would say you have dozens of
interaction in today if you're in any
sort of populated era you have an
interaction with the Uber driver you
have an interaction with the person
behind the counter you have an
interaction with the person who you get
into an elevator with and there's
usually a prescribed amount of social
interaction that you have maybe it's hey
maybe it's even less than hey the advice
that I give to people is if you want to
get started one more sentence one more
sentence than usual so as you get into
the elevator and the normal sentence is
what floor anything in addition to that
what floor are you in oh have you lived
in this building for a long time you
know and all a sudden you get to know
your neighbors because the person that
is just the elevator person who you're
putting them on floor three now has a
name and every time it sort of uh
compounds and expands and you get to
have a wider Social Circle so that's
just one piece of the things that I
would work on which is one more sentence
with people uh but there's there's
plenty more and I'm happy to dive into
First Impressions and all that kind of
stuff okay so first impr
yeah the big thing that I got wrong and
I see almost everybody get wrong and
it's bad Common advice about First
Impressions is that just the best way to
get people interested in you is to be
interested in them and what I found is
that that is generally true but it
ignores the the realities of status
which is I'm sure you experienced this
with a lot of people come up to you
they're very interested in you but that
doesn't mean that they're going to make
a good first impression on you it means
that you might have compassion for them
it might even means that you might feel
love for them but it does not mean that
you're going to want to follow up and
spend time with them probably you've
experienced I don't want to follow up
with this person and spend time with
them even though I see their sincerity
of their
interest and I've and I've been on both
sides of this right I've been the person
who is so just so interested in you
there's a few things that if you just do
this before expressing your interest in
somebody changes the whole game so fun
trust
respect if you and this can take 60
seconds or less can communicate that you
are fun that the person can trust you
and that there is something to respect
about you and then you express your
interest in that person it will
completely flip the dynamic on its head
so we can break it down please fun
there's a ton of ways to handle this
right you can crack jokes you can do all
sorts of things but the easiest way to
add fun to an interaction is you take
the first question that almost everybody
asks you which is how are you right
these are the gimmies that we just say
fine good how are you oh there's a fire
whatever and be more enthusiastic than
fine I would always say be better than
good so if somebody comes up to you and
they say how are you doing you can be
fantastic or wonderful or great or
ecstatic or electric and there's a whole
separate conversation about how to make
this real inside of yourself because I'm
not asking you to paper over anything I
think that was a mistake that I made
early in my Charisma career of just too
much fake it till you make it but if you
can genuinely cultivate those feelings
and share them that level of enthusiasm
is fun crack a joke you got fun okay
trust this is a lot of non-verbal stuff
you know eye contact body language the
way that you shake someone's hand but it
also comes down to if the person feels
like you are trying to get something
from them and there's a number of things
that tip us off to this but one of these
is when you over qualify yourself which
is in direct competition with this need
to establish yourself right so there's
these we we want to establish that we're
interesting people we have things going
on that you might want to connect with
but if we drift over into name dropping
and selling we're going to alienate the
trust so the place that I focus most on
with people is in most inter places that
I've been how are you where are you from
what do you do are like three of the
most basic questions go to a college
campus it's what's your major we all
have these and you can think of them now
if you're in the audience we have these
things that we hear all the time and we
probably have habitual answers to them
yes and these habitual answers are
usually not great yes M are so bad yeah
I just remembered mine actually people
come up to me and they say God you've
been so busy and then I'll say something
like yeah
always and then the conversation's over
yeah yeah they've got they've got
nothing to hook into or hook onto there
so you're able to get away with that and
one of the things that people do is they
build a tremendous amount of confidence
and power and then all of a sudden you
don't you can drop this to a degree
because people are still interested
because they know you from Dragon Den or
some other things but if you're out
there and you don't have that yet like I
didn't when I was 19 and 20 or you just
want to have more engaging convers ation
and you want to bring in people that you
genuinely connect with reverse engineer
the conversation that you would like to
have so you could one of I have six
charismatic mindsets that I think about
one of them is go there first in
humanizing the interaction and so this
can mean if you're in a group of people
that are all really stiff and nervous
because they don't know if it's okay
crack the first joke be vulnerable first
give the first compliment like lead the
interaction in the way you want to go
because that's what everybody wants like
we don't want to be suits we don't want
to be roles in a company we want to be
humans and that stuff is everybody wants
that and whoever goes first becomes the
leader okay okay so in your interactions
you're getting asked are you busy so if
you could go there first and do the
thing that you're wanting them to do and
work that into the answer of how you're
busy or are you busy that is going to
lead the conversation the direction you
want so as a for instance I don't know
if this is are you busy you know I have
been but one of the things that I've
really been struggling with that I
haven't figured out yet at this point is
you know I'm having some relationship
isses I'm having this or that the other
thing but like sharing the real thing a
level down beneath the surface level
stuff that you're tempted to share with
people is going there first and making
it okay for them to do it and then you
say what about you versus they say hey
uh how's it going you're so busy you're
say oh yeah man been busy how about you
they're just going to match you
especially given your you know your
power as the the leader of the company
they they will just match what you do
but if you go there first you give
people permission to go deeper so a lot
of people for instance what they might
want is they want the thing that they
care about is they care about their job
they love what they do and they're
really interested or maybe they hate
their job and they care more about their
free time and their hobbies and the
extreme sports that they do so in these
questions of how have you been what do
you do where are you from I have a
worksheet in our course that helps
people walk through what a good answer
could be that would leave hooks for the
person that is an extreme sports
Enthusiast or does you know have an
interest in that particular Niche that
they're interested in to hook into but
if you were to ask me where I'm from and
let's say that I want to connect with
you in a number of different ways but
the thing that I really want you to know
is that I have an interesting business I
could say I'm from Philadelphia and
we're
done oh cool I've been to Philadelphia
or no my friend's brother went there is
it cold in Philadelphia like these this
is where we're going to go now we're on
weather and sports which is where most
conversations go
but if I say you know I grew up in
Philadelphia but I never really fit in
there like a lot of the people in that
area wind up spending their whole lives
within 20 minutes of where they were
born and so I traveled throughout my 20s
and lived a bunch of places but I now
live in LA just because it's the right
place for my business and I end there
the next question that is coming from
you is probably oh what's your business
or where did you travel so if I give you
a number of different options to hook
into here you're going to take the one
that you're most interested in M and so
what I would try to do in these answers
with myself and what I advise people to
do is take the three topics that you
know you'd love to talk about like you'd
love to talk about your travels you'd
love to talk about your business and
you'd love to talk about philosophy or
whatever it is and find a way to just
leave little crumbs in these common
answers that give the right person the
invitation to talk to you about that
thing and this is something that I found
really like small talk can suck it's
very draining to sit here and like how
much more can I say about the WEA or
local sports team I can't keep doing it
yeah but when you do these sorts of
things it uh man it opens up the
opportunity for connection so much more
quickly in interaction and I hate small
talk yeah I really hate it I find it
really draining I find it so fake and I
I kind of want to get on to the real
stuff
um so you're saying that's how to do it
to leave sort of crumbs in my response
that will send us down a more
interesting pathway and conversation to
really think through how do I and what
do I want to connect with people over
right it's not the weather and it's not
the local sports team it is in my case I
want to interact with people that uh are
interested in the same sort of like
YouTube space that I'm interested in
that's one of the things beforehand I
thought that I knew about people I like
I could tell who that guy is I know I
know what kind of life he has but when
you start leaving these Clues people
surprise you the like the the types of
connections that come from people that
you wouldn't expect
are I don't know another word other than
like magical it's it's very special to
see that the world is full of
opportunities where once you saw it as I
already know what's coming from this
person it's just going to be a boring
Small Talk conversation and to find that
that person could be someone that you do
business with or become very close to or
winds up being the brother of someone
that you date is is very exciting to me
there there's a real mindset shift in
that like seeing the world differently
as a set of opportunities versus this
sort of like fixed thing that you just
have to navigate yes and also there's a
a playfulness that can be brought to it
as well so one of the other things that
I talk about is flirting with the world
right so what I mean by this is that
when you go out and you're flirting you
tend not to be literal in your answers
right there's there's a playfulness that
is engaged you're going to joke with
that person and what what a lot of
people do and I'm guilty of this all the
time is when you're checking out at the
store you're doing anything you are very
literal in your answers can I help you
with anything today can I get one other
thing what floor are you on as you get
in the elevator and if instead ofo floor
three you say I don't live here I'm just
casing the joint for rubber you know
it's just like like that little stuff
that is playful that is what people are
dying for we're just so many people are
on autopilot and when you bring that
playfulness that little flirtatious
energy to men women alike things open up
in in a very fun and exciting way does
that come from confidence because i'
I've noticed that i' I'd certainly flirt
with the world more now that I feel like
I have a greater sense of confidence
that didn't have when I was 18 to 25
yeah I think it's Circle I think it
absolutely comes from confidence when
you feel good you bring that playful
energy to the world and I learned to
develop confidence by there was a time
of Faking it till I made it where I
wasn't comfortable but I had this rule
in my head I'm in the elevator I have to
say the thing right now that's what I
did and then the interaction went well
and now I'm building these reps of good
experiences where I'm seeing that my
belief about the world is this place
that I just had to make it through is
not true there's fun opportunities
everywhere I really want to um make sure
I've got everything on this first
impressions Point as well is there
anything else that I need to be aware of
you talked about non-verbal cues and I
mean there's so much information out
there that says non-verbal cues are
everything that they maybe nothing do
you think they matter and what are the
most important non-verbal cues when it
comes to making a good first impression
one one of the ones that I see is prey
versus Predator
prey versus Predator movement and prey
versus Predator gesticulation so if you
think of an animal that is a prey animal
like a a little bird or a little rabbit
they're very like Herky jerky and they
they Dart and you think of a predator
you think of a lion or like this like
sort of languid slow movement now you
don't have to dial it up to Sleepy lion
level but one of the things that you see
with people that feel very afraid is
that they Dart their eyes are very dirty
the hand goes in the hand goes out goes
back into the pockets very quickly a bit
of slowness to your movements a bit of
calm especially if you're an anxious
person can help a lot that doesn't mean
you need to lower the energy but it just
means you can slow things down a bit the
other thing that I find is this is
almost pre-ir
impression if you're out at a social
event right you're at a networking event
you're at a
bar I think a lot of people do not
realize the intuitive sense that others
have
for what is going on around them in
interactions they're not directly in and
so what will happen and this is
connected to the pray thing but not
identical is that people go out to a
networking event and they feel very
uncomfortable on their own shoes and so
they're looking at their phone or
they're standing by the bar and they're
sort of looking around for something or
someone to rescue them from their
loneliness and when you can shift that
to I am going to be comfortable where I
am I'm going to find one person my
friend and I would go out to the bar and
the rule that we had was the most
interesting place in this entire bar is
the space between our noses right it
doesn't matter you can say whatever you
want you could be like I'm terrified
here I'm so scared I wish I could go
home right now but we have to engage
with one another it was remarkable how
much easier it was to start conversation
when it was started from a place of
we're enjoying one another's company and
being playful and having a good time
here versus two of us just sort of like
standing at the bar going like this
looking around for around attention or
for so yeah so those are two things one
pray verse Predator movements and two
are you exuding this Vibe of I don't
have it somebody else does that that
people have a unconscious sense that
that is happening around them and so
making it a conscious point to I'm going
to be cool in my own space when I
interact with someone I'm not going to
make them a stepping stone to another
person that I'm more secretly attracted
to or has the job that I want I'm with
this person now and then I can move on
that had a huge huge impact on the abil
like First Impressions became easier
because of the pre first impression mhm
I mean there's so much I wanted to to
dig into there on the prey versus
Predator thing what is it about slow
movements that make someone appear to be
higher status cuz cuz as you said it I
immediately thought of the line and then
you were talking about some little like
rodent that's kind of like farting
around and it's anxious that it's about
to be eaten and then I thought of the
line which is kind of just
slowly moving and then I thought of
business contexts where you've got the
leader in the room who is kind of sat
back in their chair they're doing things
in a more considered way and maybe the
intern who's like dropping the paper and
like yeah like hitting the glass
accidentally and it's it's so
interesting because it's so true yeah
it's safety safety it's safety I mean
prey animals are hunted and that's what
you have to be head on a swivel if
you're a prey animal you want to move
slow you're dead it's over we're animals
that are highly attuned to social status
and so when we feel low on on the totem
pole we feel less safe and so one of the
things that the ways that we exhibit
that is we move more quickly we have our
head on a swivel we have to be aware of
everything that is going on we can't
take our time because we don't at some
level that mamalian or Reptilian Brain
is telling us that we are unsafe in this
environment or at least less safe than
the leader who feels very slow another
thing that you'll see in terms of status
and people who feel are is the ability
to be seen looking at others and so one
of the things that happens and this is I
don't mean uh I can explain how this
doesn't contradict the point about
focusing on someone else but when you do
turn your attention to someone else what
you'll see the guy at the bar who feels
uncomfortable or the intern do is
they'll often look with their eyes but
not with the rest of their body they're
they're doing this sort of stuff because
they're afraid to be seen looking but
when you take the person who is more
comfortable they will turn their head
and know sometimes their chest and their
whole body towards others to and they
can be caught looking because they're
not threatening that other person
they're not harming them they're not you
know they're comfortable versus there's
a fear of if they see me looking I'm in
trouble right and so these are little I
wouldn't say that you need to spend all
your time focusing on these hacks but
they work both ways so it's one thing to
notice that but if you actually
consciously go to the body I think this
is one of the fastest ways to influence
how you feel like state in the moment
instead of doing this and the prey
darting and the sitting with the hands
in the pockets right that that creates a
loop of feeling uncomfortable so one of
the first things that I would do when I
was going out to a networking event or a
bar or anywhere where I felt
uncomfortable was dance floor because on
the Dance Floor I can
go and open up and feel more comfortable
through my body because I'm signaling to
my body as I expand my arms and dance
and wave them that I'm safe right and so
it's a it's a two-way Loop so if you
notice yourself at a network event or a
bar or anywhere where feeling
uncomfortable and you notice that you're
doing this and you can say okay I can't
go to my brain and make these anxiety go
away up here but I can choose how I hold
myself this is the Jordan Peterson stand
up straight right it's there's there's
this body Loop feedback that we get and
if you do it by opening up your body
language revealing your vulnerable spots
which are the parts that your veins it's
your neck it's your inner elbow it's
your hands right standing like this a
little bit more open that tends and I
can feel it now I don't know why I
didn't do it at the beginning I'm a
little bit Rusty jeez
I feel immediately more grounded right I
feel immediately more safe comfortable
and like I can take my time in this
interaction rather than having to get
the answer right for you right for the
audience like I might have when I was
going like this it's I was going to say
before you pointed that out that it's
really self-fulfilling like the intern
who's on edge who's dropping the paper
is then going to make certain behaviors
which are going to kind of reinforce
their insecurity and low status which is
then might be pointed out they might
notice it themselves which makes them
feel [__] again which makes them more on
edge and Twitchy which is going to
increase the probability that they
conduct some kind of behavior which is
and it's this downward spiral where
you're like you feel stuck at the bottom
of that and you're saying that by
influencing the things you've described
you know moving a bit slower being
expansive with your body you can start
to trigger the loop from the other way
you can start to make yourself feel safe
if you feel safe you're more likely to
do the higher value things which make
you feel safe and you spiral upwards
potentially yes yeah this is not an
Insight unique to me Tony Robbins when
at his events I don't know if you've
gone they talk about incantations where
one of the things that he does is prior
to going on stage and he advises people
to do this before they have a big moment
is he will like bang his chest and
go and his Tony Robin's way and he'll
have oftentimes a phrase that is like
I'm here to inspire or like I love
myself I feel wonderful and I would do
this before I went out right I would
before I got in the taxi before I went
anywhere I would go I love myself I love
myself I love myself and I would just
build this physical body energy
connection and it's real it happens it
it makes a dramatic impact on how you
show up because oftentimes you only get
30 seconds right it's not a lot of time
when you're sitting down in that
interview before the person starts to
form an opinion about you so going in
with that that energy that is like look
I approve of me and I'm going to have
the body language communication that
tells you that that's how I feel people
often pick up on that you can think of
interactions as two people who are
storms of beliefs encountering one
another and if my storm of belief is I'm
not really sure about this I don't
really think I deserve this job and you
probably shouldn't talk to me and your
storm of belief is I don't know a lot
about this guy but let's find out I'm
going to win yeah and you're going to
pick that up and you're go you know I
don't think this guy deserves the job
whatever but if the belief is I deserve
to be here I love myself I can be
comfortable I can be human and I'll be
okay if this doesn't go the way that I'd
like that's that's what wins out in
these it's it is the higher conviction
belief that often bleeds through in
interaction and becomes the the one that
defines that relationship at least for
that limited time in that context it's
funny because I think about my
non-verbal cues all the time I meet so
many people in so many different
contexts and a lot of the time I'm like
tired um um I'm my my head has a million
tabs open so I try and influence like
how I'm showing up with like my body
language and eye contact and outside of
the things we've discussed is there
anything else that you think I can do to
try and
leave I don't want to be rude that's
what I don't want to be I was going to
say I want to be warm but there's
something I want to be myself and I want
I don't want to be rude accidentally
rude mhm so you and you worry that you
might come across rude yeah because
I don't know you meet people like my my
assistant Sophie she walked in here now
hi she's just got like like 247 energy
and I ain't got that yeah I'm not that
guy and I'm not going to fake it yeah
and I've never been good at faking it
but is there anything else that I could
accidentally be making people dislike me
just with small things no I can say the
areas where I felt most connected to you
which is I think the opposite of rude
rude is like I'm not interested in you
as a person the areas where I felt most
connected to you is where one of us
again went there first and like said the
thing that was real it's the moments
where you stop neither of us is trying
to perform at all for the camera and
there's still a sense of that the
audience is there but yeah that's that's
where I feel okay any rudess just no
gone interesting and and when you say
that I think about like everyday
interactions and is there ever a
situation where like going there first
is a little bit too strong is what I
would say so the the thought is the one
that you have everyone has right it's
it's no I can't because other if they
didn't have that thought they would have
already done it right I will tell you a
brief story that my brother reminded me
of today as we were driving in I was
like I need I need my Charisma stories
and he said you can tell the one about
me so your brother he's in the Green
Room yeah yeah okay we went to a
networking event and for whatever reason
that day I was just in this zone of I'm
going to be a professional because this
is a networking event and the channel
wasn't established at this point and he
came with me and so I'm going in there
and I'm going through the line I'm
filling out my card what's your name
Charlie you know what do you do okay I'm
getting my my information I put my badge
on I walk through and he goes behind me
and they say what's your name he says
dragon and she says excuse me I said no
no WR dragon on the card it's gonna be
great and so he then starts a
conversation with her and they're like
just being playful and he puts dragon on
his chest and I'm going in trying to you
know impress people with my
professionalism MH and people were like
what's up he's like Dragon here and he
was a hit right he didn't he didn't have
anything to do with the networking event
he didn't have anything to do with the
uh the context of why people were there
but the interest that he got was so much
immediately more than I was getting
being the one that actually had the
business that was somewhat related to
the thing and so even I believe that
these rules on how we should engage are
um set in stone and what think few
people have done if you think of your
entire life you're either hitting it
perfect unders shooting or overshooting
everyone's fears of overshooting but
they spend almost all of their lives
undershooting overshooting is in being
too coming on too strong yeah and and
that it's okay but like there's there's
type one and type two errors right and
if there's a perfect Middle Ground of
like wow like I didn't that was a trauma
dump on that person would be in
overshare or like oh I maybe shouldn't
crack that joke at a funeral would be
going there first type of a thing M we
have less than a dozen of those usually
in our life and we have hundreds and
thousands of undershooting so what I'm
encouraging people to do is take the
risk of the overshoot because you're
already missing like you're you're under
what is available to you in terms of the
potential to create connections and the
question here is which I think informs
all of this is is your goal to blend in
get through and not make a splash or is
your goal what what is your goal and for
me it's like I want to connect I want to
connect with the people that would most
connect with me and in order to do that
I have to be willing to be seen okay so
on the other end of this what are the
mistakes people make that cause
disconnection talking about yourself is
that is that I don't think so what in
what sense so like if you walk into a
room and you immediately start talking
about yourself is that going to be if
you're over talking good question it's
it's about do people have opt-in points
so are you are you stopping giving the
person a chance to reopt into that line
of communication so this is again one of
the things we work on on those initial
questions is um okay you want to you
want to share your values early in the
interaction but am I just going to give
you my life story right I'm not giving
someone a chance to opt in but if I make
it three to five sentences and I say you
know I grew up uh I grew up on the west
coast and it was perfect because there
was surf every there everywhere and then
uh I met my wife but you know she's
super close to her family and I just
wanted to be a family man so now I live
in the middle uh of the country and
whatever you give like three hooks that
people can hook into and you're done
that's fine but some people don't give a
chance for anyone to step in and get a
word in edwise so that's another piece
that I think and I could also ask them
right if they surf or something yes
exactly but also you will see that
sometimes early in an
interaction if you
indicate these points of like people
people will often comment on what you
have to say they won't you don't need to
ask them necessarily like if you give
that thing that they like
you often don't have to like they will
jump in with the thing that connects to
it so interesting you know throughout
this conversation you've repeatedly made
reference to the fact that connection
happens at a deeper level but also the
Paradox is that we don't walk around
offering the deeper level MH
um which is what I've always figured out
and like found out on this podcast is
the deeper the conversation the more I
feel like connected to the person yeah
and yeah it's really interesting I was
just thinking about interactions that
I've even had today and you know like
the person that I I spoke to in the gym
would I have rolled up to them and what
could I have said to them that would
would have been God us past the fluffy
small talk cuz I met someone in the gym
that I've known for Loosely known yeah
and it was one of those interactions
where they hey how are you you're in La
now hey yeah where are you gonna live
I'm like I don't know and then like so
yeah fires did you are you okay yeah
yeah and I just so so let's do this how
where are you going to live I I think I
even probably asked you or everyone's
asking me because I posted on instagam
take a person in the gym you don't know
anything about them and I know context
it's going to be dependent on what you
want to learn about them what what types
of things do you wish you could connect
over more and I know there's this sense
of like whatever they want but like you
clearly care about business you clearly
care like what opportunities do you want
to open up for yourself do you want to
find a surf buddy do you want to find a
what is
it yeah so in that particular
conversation I think because I'm kind of
new here maybe what I would have been
interested in is I actually really
wanted to know something about their
professional life that I that they told
me about previously but also I'm like
looking for friends here yeah cool
things to do people to see new networks
amazing you got it so so it's where are
you going to live be like honestly I'm
not sure I'm looking for cool places to
live cool places to go new networks of
people what I should have [__] said
that yeah it's and it's so I think it's
what we mentioned earlier but the thing
that happens is that people try to get
through rather than connect and I think
that informs a lot of the questions that
people have they say yeah but couldn't
it go wrong it's like yes it could but
you have to consider that not connecting
is also it going wrong like the number
of chances that you meet to connect with
your potential spouse potential
incredible friend I don't want to be uh
nightmarish or scary for people but like
the amount of incredible people that
have walked in and out of all of our
Lives is saddening right because we
didn't say the thing and we it's like oh
my gosh you guys would have connected so
well if just one of you could have like
put it out there the thing that you were
interested in but it just doesn't happen
99% of the time time there's a certain
individual listening right now
who really wants to connect in fact they
feel so disconnected and so lonely in
their life and they're hearing
everything you say but there's a barrier
that has always stopped
them adding one more sentence going
deeper with the stranger and no matter
how much they listen to this kind of
advice they still go through their life
in this state of kind of getting through
life not connecting do you have any idea
a is that true like does that person
exist and have you met them in your
audience and be like what is step one to
starting to break down that barrier
because I think I even feel a little bit
as you were speaking I was thinking yeah
like why didn't I say that in the gym
today like what is it about me that
meant that I just tried to get through
and get back to the
weights this it's like a bad habit or I
think there's a number of things in your
case and I've experience this I I don't
know if you have this but um when you
get into a position that is a lovely one
to be in of relative power right like
people want to come on the show they
want to know what you're up to they
maybe want to go to the parties that
you're going to one of the ways to not
to avoid having to constantly set and
enforce boundaries is to shine less
bright and so I don't know if you feel
this but I notice myself not following
some of my own advice these days and
when I reflect on why it's because if I
say that I have a YouTube channel and
they say how many subscribers and I say
how many subscribers then they want my
phone number then then they want my this
and in order just to circumvent all of
that uh you know yeah I like work from
home you know I like I I will shine less
bright and I realized this uh years ago
when I was doing breakdowns and I was
doing all these famous people I'm like
I'm going to do one of Justin Bieber
because he was such a bright excited
young kid and then I looked at him at
the time he was 16 to 18 he was on Jimmy
Fallon and he was so flat and I was like
why is he so flat and then he cracked a
joke and the audience
it wasn't even funny it was God and so
any if if you get to a position where
any sort of output from you CS in this
just wave of attention and energy people
often shut that down which is a sad
thing and I want to stop doing that and
people shut themselves down yes they
shut themselves down because then you
have to have boundaries and you have to
tell that person hey I don't give out my
Instagram or I don't want to trade
numbers or you have to find a way to
navigate disappointing other people that
are interested and going having a deeper
connection that you don't feel it with
them does that happen with like
beautiful people as well cuz I almost
certainly you know what I me I imagine
they just get it all the time everywhere
they're going people are trying to
connect yeah well and I think you know
in terms of things to watch out for I
didn't realize this cuz I do think it's
not necessarily a good thing but young
women I think realize this as they hit
puberty that there's going to be people
interested in you that don't really want
to get to know you right they're
interested in you because you're
beautiful they're interested in you for
these other reasons same thing tends not
to happen with young
men and so I got to 19 and I wasn't
wanted in any of the locations that I
was at right and so there was a lady's
night but I couldn't get in there was
like and so people were very honest with
me I got direct clear feedback about the
type of people that wanted to connect
with me and if someone did it was only
ever because they wanted the pleasure of
my company there was not there was
nothing to get from knowing me when
things started to Boom I was not
prepared for the ways that people adjust
and manipulate when they perceive that
someone has power and so people entered
my life that I thought liked me and I
realized later liked my ability to
provide a paycheck or my ability to do
this and uh it was very sad for me it
was really really difficult to
experience but um as I withdrew and
stopped making vide
and uh said you know I'm not running the
I'm not running this business my
co-founder is going to take you know
he's in charge of the paychecks from
here on out the people that almost
immediately withdrew from me was I'm
very grateful to have seen it but was
unprepared for
the uh transactional nature that can
that can happen when when you start to
accumulate power and I say that because
if there's aect particularly young men
but it's true of women as well just be
aware that as you grow and hopefully
become more powerful in the world the
level of uh deception and the level of
even just in in the lightest like people
trying to please you and make you happy
is going to escalate and you're going to
need to develop a discernment that I
just never needed when I was in my young
20s to understand who's trying to
manipulate you and get things from you
and what's real yes to understand this
the subtle difference between like who
likes me for me and who likes me for
these status things that I can am
connected to or can provide and uh yeah
I mean is there any such advice you can
give someone to figure out whether
they're being used or the relationship
is authentic and real yeah well I can
give some not to do that's where I'm at
today this is Niche but if you're a
business owner be very careful about
making a single I I made a single person
my like point of contact to the business
and that meant that any feedback that
came from like the front lines of the
business was coming up funneled through
him and spoken to me and any like thing
that I said to him was then distributed
to the business and I wasn't doing
enough direct connecting with people on
the ground and what happened over a
course of years is I learned and I
didn't find this four years is that I
was being uh a generous word would be
like there was some fudge of the truth
and and then there were outright lies be
very very careful
about making one person your eyes and
ears in any aspect of your life but I
did that in the business and didn't you
know touch base and connect directly
with people and say hey is this how are
you feeling is this true and I and I
lost those direct connections and it
wasn't required in a company of my size
it was just a a foolish novice
entrepreneur mistake that I'd made
happen so many times it happens a lot in
business people listening to this now if
you've got if you working in a business
and there's a manager in between you and
maybe the top of the business managers
have a tremendous power to control
narratives narratives yeah everyone
wants power I would say I think that's a
fair statement pretty much everyone
wants power and we can Define whatever
power means but I guess there's two
paths to attaining power there's
delivering value for people and being
useful and then there's what you
described there which
is is manipulating the situation
so that you're perceived as being
necessary mhm yeah and it's it's uh
making sure that your name is on the
project right there's in a group project
there's there's always people that are
doing the majority of the work and
there's people that are making sure that
they're presenting the most important
piece or making sure that their name is
on the project narcissists sociopaths
some of some of the videos you've made
on your channel before speak to this
type of behavior yes what were the
things that you missed that are like
characteristic of narcissist cuz I know
yeah you've made videos about this
subject where you analyze other
interactions with other people but for
someone who might not be aware of some
of those subtle cues what kinds of
things my co-founder and I had several
conversations about this person where we
said man and we had these dozens of
times I wouldn't be shocked to find out
that he was lying on his job application
and we would just say that to each other
and so if you find that there's just a
doubt that that you don't believe that
somebody says that they were very
successful in a thing and just doesn't
look like it you know there's that
phrase in in business which is is if
there's doubt there's no doubt when it
comes to hiring and firing I didn't
Follow That So just pay attention to
your doubts and if you need to write
them down but it's the voicing of it in
a weird way was a way of blowing off
steam and not addressing the core issues
so that was one thing and then I think
the last thing is it's this um I felt
guilty verifying I felt guilty verifying
his job application I felt guilty going
to the guy that he said had offered him
a job whose number I had and saying hey
wanted to check on this because that
would have been an indication that I
didn't trust him and it was my way of
saying I trust you I know you won't hurt
me and maybe you can trust me that I
won't hurt you too never mind that they
were not
reciprocal relationships but the reason
that I'm so interested in these sorts of
things is
because I had by the time I was 28 or 29
built the life that I dreamed of when I
was 18 I had the girlfriend that I
wanted I had more money than I dreamed
of I had the dream job
and it fell apart because these core
things hadn't been addressed and when I
say fell apart it wasn't like the world
took it from me it was like my own ey
fell apart in my ability to sustain them
or it fell together thank you that's the
truth no that's the truth man is um I'm
so grateful for the ways in which it
broke down and I think there's many
times in my life and when I've seen
other people where they get fired or the
thing doesn't work out or the first
business fails and you're like oh it
fell apart and you're right it's uh you
get five years down the line it's like
no man that that felt together yeah
because if it wasn't you being your true
aligned authentic self whatever that
means then it wasn't real anyway it was
something you were holding together and
it sounded like it was exhausting to
hold that together yes unconsciously
life shouldn't be exhausting to hold
together so if you're if you're
exhausted holding your life together in
the relationships of people then it's
not sustainable and it's not real yeah
well I'm curious and you're taking
business on this because I've since
found business mentors that there's so
many mentors that are like here's how to
build your business so that you can sell
it and the implicit understanding there
is that this thing is a pain in the butt
you don't want to have it and you'll be
happier when you can get rid of it and
exchange for a lot of money and there's
a guy Joe Hudson who I've mentioned
before who talks about you know what if
a billion dollar business was not a
business that was valued at a billion
dollars but it's a business that you
wouldn't sell for a billion dollar
the things that you got to do like if
you had to sell it and you could never
do that thing again you wouldn't take
that deal and when you think how would I
run this business if it had to be my
billion dollar business today what sort
of things would I allow myself to do
what sort of things would I cut out it's
a total paradigm shift on business what
an amazing question to ask
yourself what an amazing question to ask
yourself so the way that I heard that
was if I wanted to run this business
like a business that I would never be
prepared to sell what the decisions I
would make today MH okay so you'd get
rid of the toxic people that are
destroying your piece irrespective of
how many clients you might lose or the
short-term net loss of that or how it
might disgruntle people um you would
probably set a pace that you could go at
for 50 years and you'd probably
disregard like metrics and growth
numbers and stuff like that yeah you'd
focus on doing work that you truly love
not what the audience want not what the
clients are paying you for but what you
truly love and
you'd work with stakeholders and
partners that treated you with the the
respect and the courtesy and the um the
the same energy love curiosity fun
that you need to do this for 50 years so
you like wouldn't work with [__]
yeah even if they were paying you a lot
of money you'd say no to a couple of
million dollars I guess that's my answer
to that question yeah that's that's
that's the answer to that question oh is
it okay right I mean of course it is is
uh it's the opposite of what you would
do if you were building to cell which is
I'm going to you know get someone else
to be the frontman cuz I don't want to
do it I'm going to have them do the
boring thing that I don't like it's yeah
instead of no no no like why are we
doing these things that we don't like
you wouldn't tolerate tolerate there
would be zero Toler and you may or may
not wind up with a billion dollars but
what I have found is as I lean into that
that's where these leaps and
breakthroughs are it's linear thinking
to figure out how to please the audience
and please other people in most cases
but there's these exponential leaps that
you make when you're like what do I want
to see in the world that's where you go
from zero to one that's where you make
the thing that has never been made
because you want it yeah so it's a hard
place to get to you've got to have I
think life failure a few times before
you kind of figure out what you've
described there um and I can certainly
rela in my life to to that so even when
I think about this podcast I speak to
Jack I think I had this conversation
with Jack the other day I was like in
order for me to do this for like 20
years what am I going to need to do
today what am I going to need to
sacrifice today to do it for 20 years
and I can kind of tell you like just a
Topline thing is when a guest request
comes on my list and it says they have
this has happened they have 70 million
followers and their stories there what
they've done Etc and it's like this
Steve we know that this is going to get
huge numbers but I don't want to sit
there for two and a half hours and speak
to this person because I have no
interest in [__] pop music in the
South South America I know that the
long-term decision to do the show for 20
years means in that moment I have to say
no mhm
because if there's multiple days in a
row where I show up to this set and I
sit down and I wasn't looking forward to
it I'm going to end up where you said
you ended up which is that feeling of
like burnt out broken yeah lack of
meaning what gives you the strength to
say no to The Superficial win when
especially when there's like a this
would be great for you wisdom of [__]
up so many times in my life when I did
that burn and also being able to look
forward at someone like Joe Rogan and
watch his interviews where he talks
about this and realizing that this
principle of if you want to go far you
have to play like long-term games and
make long-term decisions and so now
knowing what a short-term decision is
versus a long-term decision and actually
being really aligned with Jack who's who
runs this show because me and Jack are
aligned on these things now quite
intuitively and we've kind of learned
together we've like made the short-term
decision going [__] that was a bad idea
so you kind of
you kind of build this sort of
collective wisdom that the right thing
to do for the long-term health of this
show is having a set principles and I
really wish people understood that
because especially when the show gets
big there's so much pressure to change
I've got a good example I wasn't going
to say this but I think I should
probably share it because this is the DI
here and that's we me to be sharing our
Diaries here on um the last episode we
uploaded was a debate format with four
guys on it and we're talking about the
world and stuff it's the first time
we've ever done that and I had a meeting
with some people um the day after that
episode came out and someone in the room
was saying oh we should add a woman to
the panel because the Optics are
bad and I remember what I said in that
room I said we should never ever do
something purely for Optics the reason
why we should add a woman to the panel
that we just did and this is something
we will do in future is because we
genuinely believe it will make the
conversation better and I said to them
and there was 12 of my teammates who
work on this team in the room I said if
we ever do stuff for Optics we slowly
slip away from our integrity and it's
there's a paradox there because you
think the high integrity thing to do is
to like cater to Optics what things look
like but actually the high integrity
thing to do is to ignore virtue
signaling and to do what's best for the
conversation and I just reiterated in
that room that like the reason why in
the future we're going to make these
panels more diverse is because we
believe that it's better for the
audience it's better for the
conversation that's the only reason
we'll ever do it and that's a prime
example of
learning over time that you've got to
ignore virtue signaling you've got to
ignore because these things come and go
what's virtuous today will be count like
cancelable tomorrow and you've got to
stay anchored to a set of principles
yeah uh yeah we digress no we we do not
at all that is the second six
charismatic mindsets that I talk about
that is the second which is I care more
about my character than my reputation
let's do that then what are these six
charismatic mindsets so we talked a
little bit about the uh the body
language and the stuff and really I land
much more in the the mindsets and the
ways of being and this is this is to me
closer to the core first one is no
matter what I will be okay and I feeling
nervous on the way to this conversation
that we're going to have I'm in the car
getting over here I'm thinking do I need
to
prepare no matter what I'll be okay
right I go in here and this is true in
any social scenario we can often bring
life or death Stakes to the interview to
asking the girl out to whatever it is
literally just saying the phrase in your
head yourself no matter what I will be
okay has this calming clarifying thing
that helps you focus on what you
actually want to do and get out of this
circumstance and helps you stop focusing
on how do I be safe because how do I be
safe is how do I do less how do I say
less and just kill any chance of
connection right so that's the first one
second I care more about my character
than my
reputation it's very easy for would have
been like for you in that moment to Oh
shoot what are people going to think the
Optics of this are not good the
leadership that you demonstrated by not
just disagreeing but by revealing your
character will pay dividends not just in
how you guys handle Optics it teaches
everyone on the team what matters which
is fundamentally the the character what
is the case not what looks like it is
the case and you also were able to bring
it back and I think this is the thing
where we're talking about listening to
criticism is like you didn't just hear
it and reject it no we're not going to
have a woman on the podcast it was if we
do that we do it for the right reasons
right so I care more about my character
and also the Optics of oh I screwed up
now I have to fix it or I screwed up I
have to dig my heels in I think a lot of
this is going on right now with Elon
Musk and and the solute that he did is I
can't I can't say hey I made a mistake I
can't say I didn't mean that by it I
can't do any of that I have to dig in
because I don't want to be seen to be
weak or I don't want to be seen to be
this salute thing though I this is let's
do it it I'm I'm right in this video
yeah no so so Elon Musk if you've ever
seen him on stage M he is a very
eccentric totally a little bit awkward
sometimes individual who goes up on
stage and say it's like and literally
seen videos where he's
like and you know you on the red carpet
I don't know if you saw that it's like
that red carpet uh walk that he did
where he starts being going like like
this yeah he's making weird faces this
is this is him so I'm not defending him
at all but if you have a lens of empathy
and you look at the bigger picture
and you also say listen this guy has no
track record of not saying what he
thinks so if he tells me that that's
wasn't what he was doing in that moment
he has no track record of like holding
his tongue yeah and I I it's funny
because I I consider myself to be
apolitical but one of the things that
really turned me off when I saw the
commentary around that was the left side
of politics didn't seem to exert
any um what's the word
it was just all the reaction was so
predictable I watched the video and and
thought oh no he's just being El on mus
that's what he does on stage just a bit
wacky and then the whole like oh no he's
a Nazi this is a Nazi salute I just
thought I I find it to be disingenuous
yeah well there's a ton here politically
I think this is why the left loses
elections yeah
because there's so much winning there's
so much happening that you could
critique today Trump launched a meme
coin you know what I mean like there's
like you could speak on so many things
and to put the focus on this is why they
continue to lose elections in the United
States of America because I agree with
you I don't I don't see any reason to
believe that this is a
hidden uh reveal of elon's Politics as
regards the Third Reich at all it's like
the guy's a weird dude who moves weird
and he literally afterwards said my
heart goes out to you and his response
to it on Twitter which is Complicated by
the mass media right because there's I'm
going to make this video too the ability
to say sorry in personal relationships
is fundamental and critical and if you
can't own your mistakes and apologize to
someone you will erode every
relationship that you ever have because
you will make mistakes and if you can't
repair them they just it's like a bridge
that never gets any maintenance it
doesn't work do you think he should have
said sorry this is the question when
we're talking about a couple things mass
media and then I think there's a there's
a space between sorry and that wasn't my
intention and instead what he did was
cuz I I think I think what he should
have said was that wasn't my intention
what he said instead was he made a bunch
of uh puns about like different Nazi
stuff like random things uh but do I
think he should say sorry no I don't
think he should say sorry if he said
sorry can you imagine the mainstream
media exactly oh my gosh exactly so this
is the problem I'm going to make this
video which is if you look at the most
this is this is tragic the way that we
have
culturally ruined saying sorry like with
our media because if you look at the
most powerful men Andrew Tate Donald
Trump Elon Musk they all got the memo
never apologize never ever ever it
doesn't matter what you did never
apologize and what you get as a result
more power right it it like because when
you do say sorry even if it's
appropriate even if it would have been
appropriate in a private circumstance to
do that the outcome in the media Loop if
you look at um you could take someone
going back to like Aziz anari who had a
me too situation where the girl was
unhappy with how the date went but it
was all consensual but she felt
pressured by him and he went on like
very deep heartfelt
apology destroyed you know end of his
show completely over for him years later
people look back at that story with a
different cultural lens and
go that okay I yes you're sorry for that
of course that makes sense because
that's that's the appropriate response
is I'm really sorry I didn't that wasn't
what I wanted that wasn't my intent I
didn't want it to go that way um or I
didn't want you to feel that way as well
and that human response translated to
the mass media is so destructive to your
career which is it's really tragic
because that's the type of thing that
you would want to have two people hash
out and find resolution to themselves
but doesn't appear to be possible in in
um Global media today it happens on both
sides it's the right mischaracterizing
the left the left mischaracterizing the
right and I especially through this
election cycle I just saw over and over
again because there someone who
genuinely believes when I'm at home
alone and I'm watching these videos
genuinely believes that I'm
apolitical I find ver I find good things
on both sides I find things on the left
that I think that's that's um that's
that's correct and I find things on the
right especially as it relates to some
things around business that I think okay
that's I think that's the best thing and
I look at both sides I think objectively
and I'm saying I think because I never
really know my own biases and I think
you're both lying about each other mhm
and this is the kind of world we've
gotten into now where
as you say it's like there's no there's
almost like there's no hope for truth
anymore it seems do you own a business
or do you work in marketing if that's
you listen up for a valuable opportunity
from our show sponsor LinkedIn I'm an
investor in about 40 odd companies and
while they operate in different
Industries they all face one challenge
maybe the most important challenge when
it comes to marketing getting their
brand in front of the right audiences we
can probably all think of times when
we've been scrolling on social media and
received an ad that absolutely wasn't
relevant to us LinkedIn has now grown to
a network of over a billion
professionals including 130 million
decision makers which means you can
specifically Target your buyers by job
title seniority industry even company
Revenue so stop wasting your marketing
Budget on the wrong audience and start
targeting the right crowd through
Linkedin now and because you're part of
my community LinkedIn is offering you a
$100 credit for your next campaign head
to linkedin.com diary to claim yours now
that's linkedin.com diary and of terms
and conditions apply and only available
on LinkedIn ads is Trump charismatic the
most charismatic yeah
so if we interpret Charisma as the
ability to succeed based on force of
Personality right if that's one view of
it the ability to influence and succeed
you have to give it to people that you
might not agree with and Donald Trump
absolutely gets that so does Alexandri
kazio Cortez for the record right these
people that are not there for their
technical prowess but are there for
their ability to speak definitely I
think when I've what I've heard is that
he's likable in person like a lot of
people that meet him like him and he has
this thing that I haven't totally
identified that drives the left crazy
but it needs to be rather than being
demonized I think it needs I want to
explore it I want to understand what it
is
is he's like very tough to stay mad at
in the sense that what he did he he's
repeatedly in his base forgiven for
things that would have been upsetting to
them and would be upsetting if any other
Republican said or did the things that
he does there is a relationship I think
that he has with shame and so if you
look it's like the first debate that he
ever did boom here comes the question
you call women fat pigs you know this is
career Ender right here what are you
gonna say you've called women you don't
like fat pigs dogs slobs and disgusting
animals your Twitter account only
well the audience erupts and Megan Kelly
can't get a word and and it was an
entire campaign of that like Teflon
nothing sticks to him and
so you don't I don't you don't have to
like it for there to be something
meaningful there and I actually want to
go back because I think the most
impressive thing that he's done is not
win the presidency I think the Democrats
fielded some less than excellent
candidates but my God the way he took
over the Republican primaries was insane
because if you go back and watch those
debates which I currently am the first
time the first time I watched it
entirely against him he doesn't have an
audience on his side there is no one
that is on his side and to watch him go
down the line take out Jeb take out Ted
take out Marco and win the entire
audience Blow by blow is fascinating to
me you're someone that analyzes this
yeah so what did you because I've
watched all of those debates in fact
I've watched them so many times there's
Republican debates with like Jeb and his
weak energy and um I can't remember what
he was calling Ted Cruz it's like Lion
Cruz or something lion Ted yeah lion Ted
I've watched all of those but you watch
it and you go this is atypical Behavior
this is not how to be a president what
is he doing right there I think that is
the thing he's like he is him through
and through like there's not a crack in
him and so many times you this is uh
when people criticize you or criticize
anybody one of the things you'll see is
let's say that there's a comedian and
they're on stage and somebody's heckling
say you can't tell that joke that's bad
if you crack in that moment more of the
audience say o I don't know if he should
have said that but when you double down
and triple down and quadruple down and
endlessy down you actually take more
people with you and this guy doesn't
crack he anytime he's attacked I don't
think he has defense in his repertoire
like every time it's offense so whenever
somebody comes at him he doesn't respond
he barely responds that's not true he
goes you should see what he's doing you
know it's always always offense he's
willing to brawl in those situations and
I think you we are animals there is a
especially in that Republican primary
with people like Jeb there's a simple
thing of like oh this guy just owned
that dude right he just completely made
him seem like a child who was
interacting with an adult like as he
whimpered away or trailed off this is
something that I teach people is when
you're speaking just as a matter of
habit and you can you can break this
rule once you've established it but if
if you're a shy person finish your
sentence before you let someone cut you
off find a period and then the other
person can jump in but if you're but if
we're talking and you jump in at and I
just s Trail away it's has this sense of
fragility weakness and it encourages
people to speak over you if you look
especially at the first debate the
people that he was arguing against got
run off constantly and they wait they
hoped that the moderator would bring
them back into the debate and it's not
ideal that politics works like that but
it it was
it was a bludgeoning game it was just
like he makes these people
look weak in front of them as he as he
dictates the pace and what's going to
happen and he's not listening to anybody
and the audience starts lining up behind
him it was yeah I have to go back and
the video will have much more precise
moments of this but that is what I've
seen is just I've started to compile
things so that was the second that's the
second of the Charisma we're gonna do
this number three imp well so I'm glad
that we're doing it in this order
because it gets the caveats out of the
way which is the third one is I have
impeccable honesty and integrity MH and
you can see how exactly what we were
talking about is like well not really
there's there's ways in which power
moves not always following honesty and
integrity but when I think of that
deeper form of Charisma the kind we like
Socrates Jesus you know like the the the
people that are not just charismatic for
a time but are charismatic forever and
we look to as Paragons of who we want to
be and have this leader ship quality
that is not just transactional but moves
people to become better versions of
themselves which is ultimately what I
aspire to and I suppose I've used
Charisma in two different terms one is
can you influence and the other is do
you awaken the best in people if we're
using that second term I am honest and I
have high integrity is fundamental to
that
because what I found is that even if you
tell small lies for instance you're
running late you text your friend I'm on
the way not on the way you got to brush
your teeth you got to get ready um you
train this learning in yourself that is
sometimes I lie sometimes I'm not to be
trusted and when you lie sometimes you
hurt your ability to speak with
conviction all the time because there's
some part of your brain that is going am
I telling the truth am I saying the the
real thing because sometimes I don't and
so it it influences Your Capacity to
influence with conviction and for people
to know that you stand by your belief
what's really interesting um is
something exactly what you've said I I
noticed in a friend of mine um and I had
to say we're really great friends and um
we've been friends for a long long time
but I can't trust you because I see you
telling small lies to other
people that's so brave of you which
makes me think that you tell when you
speak to me I have to figure out what
the truth
is and this is a this is a this is
something which I think ties into point
three here which is If You observe
someone willing to tell tiny lies to
other people even exaggerating stories
knowingly when you know the truth you
know that X didn't happen you go oh my
God maybe the things they tell me as
well aren't yep true yeah so it erod it
erods it in all different places one of
the things that I didn't catch early on
that you just brought up was I sometimes
had like there were things that I
wouldn't say like I wouldn't have that
conversation with a friend I wouldn't
bring that to them and that is a lapse
in Integrity because that's look I have
this opinion I have this feeling I
you're someone I care about but I'm not
going to say it to you because I don't
want to create friction or I don't want
to do this I'm not going to lie to you
about I'm not going to tell you I trust
you implicitly but I'm just not going to
bring it up it took me nine years to get
to that point with this person it's hard
it's very hard but when you do
that God the it is such a deep form of
love it is such a deep form of respect
and it respects the deepest part of that
person which is I know that these this
these are your behaviors but there's a
you in there that is deeper than these
habits that you have and I want to speak
to that person because I want you to
know that I would like to connect with
you and I would like to trust you but I
can't because of this I think that is an
aspect of friendship that is often
overlooked which is you've got your
friends that you have fun with you've
got your friends that celebrate you you
know which friends do you have that will
lovingly pull you aside and tell you
these sorts of things there are usually
vanishingly few and when you get them if
you're someone who watches this show
probably it's deeply appreciated
especially when it's done in a loving
respectful way so when you can be that
for someone else it's like it's yeah
it's it's a relationship maker but
you're right in what you said earlier I
have to be the one that leads with it
what's that phrase you used go there
first that's the six one
yeah so number four so number four um I
don't need to convince anyone of
anything interesting yeah so a lot of
times we think I need this girl to like
me I need to make this sale if this
employee joins the company it's going to
be great you know I need
I need this particular individual to
like
me all the tips and tricks and mindsets
and whatever it is that we're talking
about today I hope you take broadly to
your life to increase the percentage to
increase the odds that are something
good but with any particular individual
you do not want to drop into convincing
them you want to live invitation to
people there's an invitation to connect
there's an invitation to sell I'm
willing to go there and tell you more
about the product I'm willing to share
more about the things that I care about
but when you get stuck on convincing
people they feel that there's something
missing in you that needs something from
them right and when you do that
particularly with loose connections it's
very alienating now there are times when
it's this isn't about convincing where
it's appropriate in a relationship with
like a husband and a wife to communicate
clearly your needs this doesn't mean you
convince them but it means you do state
what you're wanting and needing in the
relationship but there is like
convincing is when you won't drop it
when you won't put put it down that you
won't accept someone's answer as it is
and much more important than convincing
is filtering and this is you know you
could have tried to convince everyone in
your initial friend group that they
should all be entrepreneurs they should
all do this and you'd still be there
today working on getting the next person
to agree you have no businesses and no
podcast but when you stop trying to
convince and you reveal yourself make
invitations I'm going this way who would
like to come with me I'm selling this
product who would like to buy it yes I'm
going to learn how to talk about it in a
compelling and interesting way that
speaks directly to your problems but I'm
not going to convince you so much more
powerful this is like a pretty
incredible sales tip I was thinking
about even on marketing copy when you're
trying to sell something if you're
trying to force it down someone's throat
versus inviting them if they're the
right type of person for it to give it a
try and it's the long game too like the
short game is I need to make rent this
month I need to make a sale and we all
have situations in our life where we
feel that pressure but if you build your
business or your relationships from this
level of I'm not going to
anybody the sustainability of them is so
much better CU now you don't have
relationships that require you to be
like come on come out tonight you know
you want to you want to do that you have
people that opt in when they want to and
can step aside when they don't and your
relationships flow much more organically
when you drop the convincing with a
without you energy yes people talk about
that L yes yes Invitational yeah
invitation energy so the fifth uh is
that I proactively share my
purpose and I think this this podcast
like sets people up to do that in an
excellent way but this is where I talk
about early in the interaction there's
so many times where we just don't talk
about what we care about we talk about
the small talk we talk about the weather
the baseball team making sure that you
are sharing with people the things that
you care most deeply about and that
you're here to do is so powerful so high
Charisma I I believe High Charisma if
you think I don't know if you remember
the show but it was very influential to
me there were these guys that Buried
Life a long time ago when MTV used to
run TV shows and they were guys who had
this their own bucket list and on every
episode they would go scratch an item
off of their bucket list and at the end
they would help a stranger in the street
they would say what's an item on your
bucket list and they would do that with
them and in their second season one of
their bucket list items was play
basketball with Obama and so they walked
around Washington DC and just said hey
we we have this thing we're the Buried
Life we want to play basketball with
Obama we're trying to prove that you can
live your dream can you help and they
just went bang bang bang down the line
and within like 3 days they're in a
senator
office right just from sharing this is
what I'm doing this is what I care about
can you help they didn't have anything
to exchange didn't have anything other
than the participation in a dream and
when you are connected to your dream
like the real one not the one that's
like I want to make enough money like
but the one that is oh my God that's
like I want to prove to people that
anything is possible and it's real
people like to participate in that they
like to give help in order to do that so
what wound up happening is that the
Senator reached out they set up a
meeting and Barack flaked he didn't he
flaked he didn't show he had something
come up so they aired the episode and
they never got to play with him
except episode airs barack's in the
white house with MTV on in the
background and he sees these guys the
Buried Life talking about how they want
to play basketball with Obama and he
contacts his Aid he says why haven't I
play basketball with these guys yet and
the same Aid who had hurt he said well
we had something come up that day we
couldn't do it he says get them out
here' and so they went and they played
basketball at the White House with
Barack Obama and it came from just
sharing their purpose with people is
that what manifestation is I
think if manifestation is just thinking
happy thoughts and waiting for them to
happen that to me is is wishful thinking
but yeah if it's putting your energy and
your intent and your request for support
behind the thing that is most important
to you like that's that's the reality of
manifestation
and I think why a lot of people like
Conor McGregor you know when they when
they hit these places they talk about
the power of manifestation I think are
often misinterpreted because it's not
just seeing it or thinking about it it's
putting your full life force behind it
reaching out asking for help and
contributing your part of the pie as
well I love that yeah I love that it's
really really important number six
number six we've said this one before I
go first in humanizing the interaction
humanizing the interaction yes which is
to say whenever you're with a group of
people there is an expected social Norm
right and it is usually less than people
wish that it was it's the thing that you
described earlier is I wish that my
employees would get to what's really
going on and it's the ability to be the
first one like I told the story about my
brother to crack the joke about the
dragon name tag right and that that made
everybody in the event funnier they now
they all want to C jokes and they want
to be playful it's the ability to give a
compliment first sometimes people are
afraid that it'll disrupt their status
if they're too complimentary and we did
talk about how at the beginning of an
interaction it's useful to to establish
fun trust and respect but then feel free
to pour it on right uh compliments uh
and then vulnerability right going first
sharing the vulnerable thing there's a
fine line of course between trauma
dumping
and just outpouring without checking if
the other person is with you and wanting
to go there with you but yeah to to dive
into the thing that is unsettled in you
or that hurts or that you're working on
and you're not sure about man we go
there first it's like the room
transforms around that it's like
everyone's like oh me too yeah I'm also
struggling yeah I also wish we could
laugh more yeah I also really I love
that person's sense of style but didn't
want to be weird and say so so when you
go first in humanizing the interaction
it is it is the essence of leadership
sure sharing your imperfections mhm I
saw this in one of your videos um that's
kind of what you're talking about there
right it's being willing to show The
Chins in your own armor yes it
is I think a lot of people like me have
an idea that Charisma is looking like
someone else that they admire it is and
and they don't know that person's
internal dialogue right they don't know
all the internal questioning is going
inside of them and when instead you can
start with where you are which so people
will ask me how do I deal with anxiety
and one of the things that I've said and
I've done it a handful of times on this
podcast is speak to it like I felt
nervous when I was coming in here like
if the thing comes up inside of you and
it feels like you can't say it give it a
risk say it it often creates a depth of
connection that that you wouldn't be
anticipating what about humor being
funny being funny so we haven't talked
about this but there's um I think about
charismatic types of people the five
types that I think of are high
conviction authentic funny empathetic
and energetic and so basically High
conviction are people that they're that
belief storm that when they encounter
you they just win that's Conor McGregor
like he's 19 years old pimple-faced guy
saying he's going to be a champion of
the world without a waiver in his eye
Steve Jobs the story of uh Mike Scully
who was one of his chief officers who
came and worked for him I don't know if
you're familiar with it do you know what
he said to him what' he say so they're
having a meeting and scully's not going
to join and he says do you want to sell
uh want to sell flavored sugar for the
rest of your life or do you want to come
with me and change the world and scoty
was at Pepsi at the time yeah he was a
Pepsi and so he says G to yeah and just
this this belief that I'm going to
change the world and this solidness
behind it that's high conviction uh
Donald Trump is high conviction right
guy when he loses election isn't lose
elections right it's a level it's a
level of certainty that he's goingon to
win that is just next level so that's
one type of Charisma um it's incredibly
powerful there's downsides to it it can
be difficult to integrate feedback and I
think you've seen that with like Conor
McGregor you know it's it's uh when you
develop High conviction it's also really
important to have some areas of your
life where you're able to listen and
we're able to integrate feedback anyway
there's the authentic type this is I
think Trump has a degree of this as well
this is number two right number two um
but the way that I'm it's a different
kind of authenticity I suppose than
Trump which is
I trust this person exactly like to say
what they think in front of me whether I
like it or I don't and I think Joe Rogan
got big off the back of this this was
this was the like if Joe disagrees with
that guy he's not gonna be rout but he's
you're G to get you're going to know
about it right uh he is going to have
his comedian friend on that he wants to
have on because he wants to have him on
and when you do authenticity over a
period of time it creates just
unshakable trust like I've seen this
person do things that could be damaging
to our relationship and just continue to
move forward so I know that they're not
trying to please me with their behavior
and I can trust the things that they say
and I can trust the things that they do
and I can rely on them I feel safe to
rely on them that's the authentic
type third type is funny these are these
are your comedians these people are just
fun to be around like you hang out with
them they're cracking jokes the whole
time they bring a levity everyone else
is talking literally and they're going
to bring in something that is just non
literal so any comedian is going to fit
this you're Kevin Harts you're you're
whoever take your pick
empathetic to me Oprah is the Paragon
but I think you have you have become the
Oprah of the podcasting World in many
wayu that's a massive compliment but
empathetic people are they do really
really well oneon-one
and
they they help other people to feel seen
right they ask a question with a
sincerity that makes the other person
share the thing that they might not have
shared in many other groups and we all
deeply want to feel safe to share
ourselves but we don't because we're in
louder groups or all different sorts of
things so when we get in contact with an
empathetic person they might not talk
very much but man do we leave liking
that person like oh we had a great
conversation we need to do that again
interesting uh and then the last one is
your energetic type this is probably the
easiest one to add I think of early Will
Smith I think of the way that people
walk onto walk onto talk shows where
they would come onto Jimmy Fallon
dancing onto the stage or something like
that this is an individual who may not
be very witty with their humor but they
make people smile because the energy
that they bring to an interaction is
just like two degrees higher than you
would expect okay right so it's he
doesn't need to be like funny haha can
crack a joke but the guy who's first on
the dance floor at the wedding is
like you know committed to the thing
that's energetic and I think Jack Black
is someone who has a comat he is funny
like he can crack a choke but the energy
that he brings to everything he does is
what sells it so this comes from
commitment to the bit right you don't
like start off dancing like this and
then look around and realize nobody
likes it and stop yeah it's if you're if
you're able to sustain a level of energy
enthusiasm and positivity that is one or
two degrees higher than the people in
the room at first there's like I don't
know and then they they join in because
everybody wants to relax and dance and
feel better or at least to witness
people doing that and when it's
committed that's when it really really
works so when I think about these five
charisma ypes that you talk about you
could be several of them and you could
potentially be all of them yeah so
someone could be high conviction
authentic funny energetic and empathetic
sure and is that like the Holy Grail
that's like the singularity where
Universe
explodes no you're right you could be
you could be all of these I do find that
conviction and empathetic tend to move
in opposites of one another like I
wouldn't expect Conor McGregor to like
hold space for me very
well uh so they they're but that's not
required right you can have a degree of
conviction Obama he struck me as being
high conviction at times yes we can yeah
and also empathetic when he cried on the
stage after the Sandy Hook thing I think
he's a great example of of those moving
up he's also authentic he's funny yeah
energetic I guess I mean he was he riled
people up he I mean he's a generational
Talent as a politician he's yeah so he's
he's definitely next level that's the
other thing I've started to look back at
some of the president that we've had and
we've had some Statesmen that have been
you can have your opinion on them but
when I look at the people that have won
they're they're the Charisma candidate
in a lot of the cases isn't it crazy I
don't think it's that crazy that's the
thing we we tend to overlook it and then
pretend that we live in a world based on
uh rubric Merit as opposed to this is
literally a popularity contest how did
this person make me feel yeah how do I
feel when I'm around them or how do I
feel when I witness them on stage do I
believe that I can trust them without
ever having had a one toone conversation
so Obama's he's a Charisma freak he's
he's incredibly High Charisma what you
just said there just goes to highlight
how important these skills are because
if you can rise to the top of society
and become the leader of the Free World
by mastering Charisma yeah like Dave at
his job or like me as a
podcaster it just goes to show that like
talent and Merit and skills and maybe
even my education are secondary to my
ability
to make people feel a certain way I
think in most I think let me see if this
is true certainly true in LA to to a
ridiculous
level but even in the industry that I
was in which was
Consulting I wound up getting off cycle
raises uh preferential treatment though
even decades later I feel strange saying
it on camera and it was like I said
there was there were better analysts
than me there were guys that I lik that
I went to to help me with my work and it
was not because I was the best analyst
it was because I had established
relationships with people that liked me
and wanted me to do well and it's
obvious what is nepotism other than
familial connection right and so if you
just remove the family from it that's
Charisma that's this person cares and
wants me to do well and likes me but
it's not nepotism it's something else
it's it's a charismatic connection that
you have with that person health is a
huge Focus for me in 2025 and I'm not
just talking about eating bright and
exercising I'm talking about my recovery
too I'm halfway through 60 workouts in
60 days and to help my body recover I've
been using a health Gadget that I've
shared with you before they're a sponsor
of this podcast and their product has
such a huge impact on my recovery I'm
referring to my bond charge infrared sa
of blanket these are similar to the
infrared saers that you see in gyms and
Spar but the big difference is that it's
portable I started the year off at my
home in South Africa so I brought the
blanket with me and I used it most
nights before bed when I was training
hard and it helped help me relax it
helped my muscles feel less sore and I
wake up feeling more recovered it works
by heating up your body directly rather
than just the air around you to improve
circulation and reduce stiffness I've
also noticed that it's had a big impact
on my skin as well and thankfully Bon
charg has offered me 25% off for my
listeners so if you use code diary at
checkout you'll also get free shipping
and a yearlong warranty head to bonch
charge.com
diary your gut and my gut is the home of
our digestion and it's also a gateway to
Better Health but it can be hard to know
what's going on in there Zoe who
sponsors this podcast has one of the
largest microbiome databases on the
planet and one of the world's most
advanced at home gut health tests their
blood sugar sensor which I have in this
box in front of me goes on your arm so
you can see how different foods impact
your blood sugar then there's the at
home blood sample which is really easy
and analyzes your body's blood fat and
of course the
famous blue Zoe cookie which tests your
metabolism oh and I can't forget there's
also a poo sample which is a critical
step in understanding the health of your
microbiome and you post it all to Zoe
and you get your results back which will
help you to understand your body's
response to different foods using your
results Zoe's app will also create a
personalized nutrition plan for you and
this is exactly why I invested in the
business so my question to you is how
healthy is your gut head to zoe.com to
order yourkit and find out and because
you're one of our listeners use code
Steven 10 for 10% off your membership
head to zoe.com now how do I use this
idea of Charisma and body language and
interpersonal skills to improve my
prospects in work whether that's in an
interview setting for a new job or if
I'm looking for a promotion so the first
thing that I always thought about with
interviews and trained people to think
about was the interview does not start
when you land in the room with that
person who is got the piece of paper in
front of them with your
resume starts when you leave your house
if you're taking an Uber you need to
talk to the Uber driver right right you
need to get warm you need to get
comfortable you need to get those vocal
cords moving you need to be dynamic when
you enter the building if it's a large
building and has a security guard one
more sentence remember hey how's it
going you see a lot of Fresh Faces in
here you know yeah hopefully this is not
the last time you see me that type of a
thing it just makes you feel a little
bit more comfortable instead of
reviewing whatever technical stuff that
you think you need to know that needs to
be dropped before the interview that's
either in there or it's not like 15 to
30 minutes in advance then you go
upstairs there's a secretary same thing
there's other candidates same thing by
the time you sit down across from that
person you're warm you're ready to go
and you're not starting from zero in
order to be an engaging human because
there are going to be those initial
questions did you get in all right did
you do this just a little bit a little
bit extra and it's going to be attuned
to the situation but it'll come through
and you've opened a couple of tabs on
the way here right exactly exactly like
how'd you get in and be like yeah I read
I met Rick at the door he's awesome
right like that's that's GNA help so
that's the number one thing and then in
interviews there's a you don't know what
questions you're going to get asked but
if you can take what you're going to get
asked and put it into a story format and
have a beginning middle and an end that
has like an up down up sort of curve to
it and what I mean is that they're going
to say tell me about something that you
really struggled with in your career and
if in advance you have thought through
your career and you have the three big
moments that happened to you which is
you took over this project you quit this
job and left to this one and you did
this other thing and then you backwards
figure out the story of those and so the
story has this agitating you know it's
got the you establish that I was working
at this company and then there was a
problem and then you agitate the problem
it was really bad and no one could solve
it no one could to figure it out and so
I did X Y and Z and as a result it
turned out really well and then this
other thing happened you get three to
five of those things that you know are
your core stories you have no idea what
questions are coming but I promise you
you're going to slot five things into it
so you don't need you will not be
surprised in the moment if there's a
question that you haven't prepared for
or heard because probably there's a
story when it comes this is the fit
portion of the interview that you can
just you have your story ready and it
demonstrates any of the values that you
think this company wants which is I'm
tenacious I work hard I know the uh
industry and I can work well with people
that's built into your stories um and
then one tip is that at the end of an
interview there's always that moment
where they say do you have any questions
for us and what I've seen seen sitting
on the other side of the table is people
either ask a question they don't really
have because they feel like they're
supposed to um or they say no I don't
have any questions and it's just a
missed opportunity and so this one I
have to give credit to my
co-founder uh he came up with and this
is one of the things I did not
anticipate I got the most positive
responses like I got the job because of
this question type of a thing and the
question is okay so let's say that this
interview went really well and a year
from now I got the job and you're
looking back
what would I have had to have done in
order for you to feel like it was a good
decision like what things will I have
had to have done in that in that role
and so typically the person goes um I
like that that's a really good question
and it does a handful of things one
you've gotten them to imagine the
interview going really well and them
hiring you right and then second they're
going to lay out for you exactly what
you need to do in the role to Excel and
that is something that every boss wants
it's like I want you interested in
knowing what I need from you in order to
do a good job and you can take that same
principle and you could bring it into
conversations if you want to get a raise
sooner than you think you were going to
to go in and say Hey you know I'd like
to get a raise you can make it clear I'd
like to do it faster than usual but I
want to make sure it's totally worth it
for you
so six months from now or eight months
from now in order for me to get this
raise what would I have had to have done
for it to be a no-brainer obvious to you
that this was valuable and then they
will go and tell you the things that you
could do and if it's it's a company that
says no you can't maybe you don't want
to work there but they'll just give you
the Playbook and then do those things
keep up with that person and you're now
off track for promotions right you're
not just doing whatever they say and the
Bummer is you might have done those
things anyway but if you don't have that
conversation in advance they're not
going to give you a raise in most cases
so interesting because this could be
applied to like anybody in any role that
is selling anything I'm thinking of a
personal trainer who meets their client
on the first day and says six months
from now what would I have done to have
made you happy or I'm thinking of you
know marketing Industries agencies
turning to their clients at the start
and saying if we're still working
together in 12 months and you're really
happy what would I have done yeah and
they'll lay out exactly how they want to
be treated and their expectations yes
yes so you can meet and exceed them yes
yeah and it shows that you care in that
in that initial moment you mentioned
something earlier on which um you said
uh you were in a South America and you
thought your life was going to be
focused on figuring out how to pick up
women yeah what are women attracted to
in your opinion I know this is somewhat
stereotyping and generalized but are
there anything that as a as a man I
could uh do to make myself more
attracted to a woman and vice
versa when I see men approach women
particularly in the US every culture is
different I've lived in a number of
different places there's that moment
where they're just sussing out does he
feel like he has a right to speak to me
or not and sometimes they're not
immediately warm and by immediately I
mean in the first 5 seconds and there's
a difference between the guys that I've
seen get more comfortable and they just
ride that 5 to 10 to 15 seconds out and
then the women are laughing and the guys
that take that first initial bit of she
didn't initially like love everything
that I said and then they go okay and
they walk away so conviction is a huge
huge piece of it I think another big
element is that a lot of guys come in
with just man they they have these
boring habits and I don't think they can
conceive of what it's like to be a woman
and get asked the same boring thing 10
million times and this is true on dating
apps and it's true in the bar so on
dating apps it's pay right or something
like that in a bar it's do you come here
often it's what is your major or
something like that so having any sort
of initial line that is just not that
right make it true you don't need to
tell a fake story but the one that I
fell back on in so many different social
circumstances was hey I don't think I've
met you yet I'm Charlie and the one the
reason I love this is one it's portable
it can be a house party it can be a bar
it can be whatever but unspoken in that
is that I'm the type of person who knows
a lot of people here which I didn't say
that yeah it's true but it comes through
in that it's like I'm the man that is
I'm The Man about town like I know
different people here um so that was
always just an easy one to have and I
think to have that in your back pocket
is very helpful but in terms of what
they want the first thing is just
general human attraction and this isn't
like I want to sleep with you I want to
marry you it's just do I want to engage
in conversation with you do you have an
interesting story
do am I excusing myself at the first
minute to go to the bathroom first
chance I get H is she filling in gaps in
conversation with her own contributions
or do you have to carry the entire load
yourself that's how you know if you have
that basic human attraction doesn't mean
that she likes you or wants to be with
you just means that she's down to
converse and interact with you the
second thing that is probably one that
most guys miss is Do You authentically
Have and Have you communicated to her
that you have standards Beyond her being
beautiful and for most men this is just
a no this is this is unfortunately if
they look back on their lives and they
go okay has there ever been a time where
I was physically attracted to someone
and she did something that made me go
okay I'm not interested anymore whether
it was be rude to a waiter or unkind or
cold or just not have fun in the way
that I would like to have fun which
doesn't mean she's a bad person just
mean she's not a match for me so many
men especially when they're
younger don't have standards they they
have that one standard so the weird
thing about that is it feels like oh
well if I have a standard I have a
smaller group of people that are going
to work with me but actually women want
to be liked for more than their looks
people want to be appreciated for their
inside for who they are as a person and
if you can't feel and communicate that
you know oh man like I often go out I
don't meet people that I have as much
fun with as you you're so funny or like
I love how affectionate you are like
like most people wouldn't come on to the
dance floor with me we're the only ones
out here or whatever it is if you can
communicate to her that you have a
standard that she is hitting and that is
making you aware that you're a match for
her it shifts That Power Balance from
she's on a pedestal because she's
beautiful and I'm going to pursue her
the whole time to genuinely you come in
and you're actually filtering for these
things so you will be subconsciously
wanting to find the person who's going
to go cut up the dance floor with you or
trying to find the person that is
affectionate as opposed to the person
who is a bit colder is there an element
this as well where people will [__] test
you like they will test to see if you
have standards yes because if men and
women so I will subtly because I heard
about this thing called [__] testing
where like someone will subtly mistreat
you to see how you react yeah and if you
react in that moment and you just kind
of accept it and tolerate it they'll
therefore treat you in the future in the
same way but also they they will be less
attracted to you and viewers lower
status whereas some you she might show
up 45 minutes late and if you're still
sat there
mhm then that in of itself is showing
that you'll kind of tolerate anything
and that she's or he is higher standard
higher status than you yeah I at the
beginning of one of my relationships
that wound up being a multi-year
relationship but uh we were just sort of
getting started and I remember we had
plans to meet on a Sunday night and I
had been very amenable up until this
point she' canceled and I said no
problem you know canel no problem and I
saw what was happening I'm breaking my
own rule I'm being I'm moving plans in
order to make space with her and so we
have a thing Sunday night it's 900 P
p.m. we're supposed to meet at 10: she
calls me and says that sorry I can't
come I'm with my family and I'm G you
know I just can't make it also
unfortunately this week you know I have
this thing on Monday and this other
thing Tuesday and then I have work
Thursday Friday night so the only way
that I can see you this week is is going
to be Wednesday night and I had earlier
that day made plans to go out with my
friends on Wednesday night and though it
was a challenge for me I thought about
this earlier and I said oh that's a
bummer then I don't think I'm going to
be able to see you this week she said
what what do you what do you mean I said
I I have plans on
Wednesday well what what then we're not
going to be able to see each other and
she starts getting upset and nervous I I
don't know what to tell you I I just am
not free on Wednesday okay let me call
you back and she goes she calls me back
in 15 minutes okay I'm going to come
over oh my God that you just reminded me
of so many investment conversations I've
had with ERS who pitched me their
business and email me and go Steve we've
got a million pounds left in this round
you can put the million in but we need
to know in 3 days time because we've got
so much interest and I remember one over
the Christmas break where I said don't
worry about it I can't I can't give you
an answer in three days I take two weeks
to speak to my team do some analysis do
diligence I come back two weeks later
and I go we're not interested MH is
there any way you might be interested
please as I've just a you told me there
was three days for me to make a decision
at first then I told you I didn't want
to do that I took two weeks I came back
and said no and now you're chasing me
yeah and it's so interesting how but you
can't the problem with this as advice is
it has to be true yes this is don't play
I mean
games okay you can at first I understand
you're 18 you've got nothing on your
social calendar you technically are
available every minute of the day to be
with this girl that you would really
like to be with the advice is often just
say no that you can't hang out with she
does it which I think is very confusing
instead fill your calendar you like
start to build your life outside of this
thing if you're this business get other
options on the table have other balls in
the air that are going for you so it's a
hack but starting to calendar your
social life which is not something I
like to be very flexible but when you
have that it actually makes you much
more charismatic and I see this all the
time so there is something to this don't
play the game you don't need to fake it
but if you find that this is not working
in your life start to take steps to fill
your calendar even if one night is like
on Tuesdays I watch this TV show and
then take a luxurious bath after like no
sorry I can't do it Tuesday and this can
all get adjusted when you're in a
relationship and it's ongoing there's a
give and take that is of course going to
occur but man yeah there is um there's
these power games that people play
there's these these who is more in
demand and like it or not it has an
impact I went through some of your best
performing videos of time on your
channel and it was interesting that I
could see kind of themes in them right I
could see the several of the best
performing videos had similar themes and
one of the really prominent themes was
five habits that make people instantly
dislike you so that's a video about Brie
Larson and around the time of the
Avengers Captain Marvel thing she had a
string of interviews that were pretty
alienating to people some of the things
that she did goodness it
was having to win every joke exchange
they're talking about for
instance who's the most powerful Avenger
right and they're sort of being playful
with each other like well Thor is the
most powerful and she adopts this
attitude of well actually my character
would kill yours and there's a well
actually quality like well actually I
would been actually I would win actually
uh your character is just a mere mortal
and I would win and it is like cute once
but it becomes frustrating to have
someone have to win every banter
exchange between friends and so I think
people saw that and they saw some of the
reactions of the cast and so that's one
is like to have to win every banter
exchange and have a burn that you come
out on top of not a good one another one
that she did is to
interpret ambiguous Communications
negatively so for instance in this
particular video that I did she's on
that wired autocomplete interview and
there's one question that is does Bri
Larson work out and in a way that
doesn't to at least to Americans like
clearly communicate sarcasm maybe it's
different to Brits I don't know you guys
have a different cultural code she says
something to the effect of like is that
a personal attack really yeah and then
she doesn't laugh and she also so
there's two options there you could say
is that a personal attack and then you
could laugh right or you could say is
that a personal attack everyone on the
internet thinks that I'm so fat just
trying to jump on me I'm trying to lose
weight like you can you can double and
triple down until it's clear that you're
being absurd yeah but she said it once
and it came through as hyper defensive
and the thing that I talk about is you
want to interpret ambiguous
Communications charitably this is a big
one this is one of like if You' watched
the show Ted lasso this is full of this
people will come up to him and I just
did a video that had this clip where
he's on the airplane if you know Ted
lasso he's an american guy going to
England and somebody says you know
you're you're going to uh coach the
football team the soccer team for us in
England man they're so bad this is going
to go horribly you're Legend and then he
responds well you know I haven't lost
yet and he's just got this General
positive demeanor he takes that
ambiguous communication and responds
with Grace and charm and doesn't make it
a
fight that works so well that purposeful
misinterpretation of ambiguation early
on that are maybe not the
friendliest this often will take people
that are trying to take Digs at you and
make them flip and in the case that
somebody was just a bit socially
miscalibrated it gives them the
opportunity to you know not be cast as
the bad guy in the interaction so that
was something else that she did wrong
interesting also if if others are
watching the interaction and if you have
a bias towards interpreting the
communication well yeah the person
that's was maybe taking a dig at you is
going to look pretty ridiculous and
you're going to probably come off
looking pretty good exactly exactly
and we when we see people defend
themselves against
words with with some exception when
somebody's like saying that they're
going to hurt you it
communicates an insecurity and a
defensiveness which is like why do you
need to defend yourself against the
opinions of another right like the Trump
thing where he said about only Ros o
Donald yes yeah it's like I don't need
to defend myself against this and it
subc communicates that this is not a big
deal more than saying that's not a big
deal you are subc commmun that's not a
big deal by not defending it and that's
what we do when we actually feel
comfortable let's say if somebody were
to tease something that you're not at
all in about I don't know what it would
be maybe your business success or
something they come in like yeah well
you know Sten real struggling these days
you're going to laugh you're going to
add on to it and sometimes a way through
this is to tag the joke that's made at
your expense which is to to add a yes
and on top of it so if somebody
ambiguous interpretation is say yeah you
know Stephen these businesses just
aren't working really well you be like
oh my god dude you have no idea I've
been pulling my hair out with the last
few weeks just like things are falling
apart around me you can do that because
you I'm assuming feel very comfortable
with with your level of business success
and when you can again there is a
difference when you start to sense a
pattern in somebody that is a different
route that you want to take but if it's
just one banter thing that is at your
expense to double down and make it a
joke that you're in on is often very
very
powerful fascinating I'm going to ask
you one last question on this
um one of your best performing videos is
titled speak like a leader make people
respect you in fact there was two of
your top performing videos that were
about speaking like a leader speaking
well which is fascinating to me that
people really want to learn how to speak
well what advice would you give to
someone who doesn't feel like they're a
good oral communicator on how to speak
like a
leader the ability to answer non-
literally and bring in fun and jokes
into the
interaction the ability to get to values
in a conversation which is a lot of the
stuff that we talked about to
take people to the thing that they
actually want to connect over versus the
weather and all that sort of stuff is
part of it you don't you you seem to
take a pause as well when you're
thinking Some People fill in the gaps a
little bit yeah generally and I I'm sure
I've made this mistake but if you can
replace any filler word um uh any crutch
word that you have with
silence silence is a vacuum and the cool
thing about vacuums is that they pull
attention to you MH and I think people
dramatically dramatically underestimate
the amount of Silence that're they're
afforded if I look back actually at my
early videos I dramatically
underestimated the value of Silence I
thought that I had to get it all out
there and be super interesting really
fast in order to keep that avd really
really high and I've since seen and
learned that when you have a story and
you learn the Beats where you've set up
the mystery and so there's these these
lines that you'll say in a story is like
you know the craziest thing happened the
other day
so I'm right like you you are there's
there's these Hooks and you get an
intuitive feel for where you've got the
audience on the edge of their seat and
especially then to just take a breath or
have a pause you don't need to think all
of this out but that becomes second
nature that's very valuable and it comes
from the way I've seen people do is when
you record yourself tell a story and
just watch back how many ums and us you
have in it when I watch my own podcasts
I'm sure you've felt this yeah oh my
gosh it's
horrifying yeah you begin to see your
own little habits come through does body
language matter when I'm speaking in
your I think so yeah yeah there's a
couple things that I tend to teach
people which is a lot of people form a
tiny little box for themselves where
maybe they'll move their hands like this
and it's they got this thing going on
people that can't see you just kind of
waving it like a I'm kind of waving my
hands in a little circular thing and my
elbows most importantly are pin to my
sides if I lift my elbows off my sides
and I start talking a little bit like
this and if I was to say you know over
here and my brother's in The Green Room
over there and I gesticulate there's two
ways to gesticulate I can take my finger
and I can point six inches from my face
the direction that my brother is or I
can lift my entire arm and P over there
point over there the space that you fill
is one captivating this is something
that we talk about in a lot of our
videos which is you don't need to invade
other people's space you need to fill
your own completely when you fill your
space completely it is much more
captivating so when you're on stage to
gesticulate with the the full width of
your wingspan like look I know you guys
on this side of the room are feeling
this but over here right versus I know
you guys on this side of the room think
that we have to do this but over here it
just there's a level of discomfort that
is comes through in it versus get those
elbows off the sides it makes a huge
huge difference also helps you speak
louder makes you more
Dynamic what's the most important thing
we haven't talked about that the
audience are probably screaming to know
at this exact moment in time when it
comes to confidence one of the mindsets
that I see really help
people is that there are no superiors
that you go into your workplace and you
think that you've got to treat your boss
differently or you go into a bar and you
think you have to treat the beautiful
woman differently and yes there is
status and yes we arrange ourselves in
sorts of hierarchies
but when you realize and I as I did in
my job and this is why I got the raise
off cycle it's why everything started
working for me you're not dealing with
roles you're not dealing with investors
you're not dealing with avatars of
beauty you are dealing with people and
the people that they love the most in
their life that they would do the most
for they connect with over the same
things that you connect with your
friends over there's different interests
but the underlying themes of those
things are the same what they love to do
for fun what fills them up what brings
them Joy not looking prim and proper and
perfect and so like a willingness to
make that mistake is uh I see is often
the essence of confidence and when I
have dropped it and another friend has
picked it up I see it all the time goes
back to what you said about convincing
versus invites don't convince people
give them invites to connect yeah yeah
that's a really interesting point that I
never heard before and I can immediately
see how I can action that in my own life
because I do even I find myself like
convincing people all the time trying to
convince them especially if they don't
know I'm like oh I do this I do this I
do this even like when I land into the
US they're like border Force are like
what are you doing here like what do you
do I'm like
I got to podcast cool start a
business brings out that little boy just
say your holiday I'm here for a [__]
holiday let me
through we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest without
knowing who they're leaving it for all
right and the question that's been left
for you
is what is the most important thing you
are doing to increase your well-being
a well we have talked about this and
without opening a can of
worms I have done roughly
quarterly psychedelic Journeys for the
last couple of years and I was someone
who had never done that before I when I
was 30 I was the most straight Ed person
you ever met I didn't drink I didn't do
any of that why you doing it why am I
doing it Hest aners only to connect with
my heart and have that be the primary
was thing that I bring into every
interaction
and it has helped
me address the barriers to that the
shame and we didn't go super deep today
into it but the things that I've alluded
to in my past
that uh I thought made me broken
or Unworthy of showing up fully where
did that come
from get
um the
belief and I the experiences that I had
and there were many and it feels late
the podcast to jump into them though we
can jump into them if you want to um I'm
I'm open to it
uh one of them was being sexually
abused
and one of the things that I got from
psychedelics
was the ability to go back into that
experience and realize
what it
had what compensations I'd made as a
result of it because it was always
something that I remembered I was old
enough to remember I was probably about
10ish
and but the way that I took it
was this is my
fault I did this I must have wanted this
or else it wouldn't have happened it's
that infinite responsibility even at a
young age that that I took which I can
see is crazy and therefore this doesn't
bother me I'm not I'm not affected by
this um and in these experiences to
break to just crack entirely
and my heart to spill out of my chest in
in pain and tears and grief for the
loss of Soul connection
that was impacting by that
experience to uh I'm so blessed to have
had the chance to reconnect with my soul
and I want so deeply to offer that to
other people and perhaps this adds some
context to the shift and Charisma from
something that you do
to the essence of Who You Are and
that's that's how I want to teach it
going forward and that's what
I that's the core gift that I want to
pass forward to
others that emotion is still on the
surface MH because it it cost you
something that you what what what what
are the like the mixture of emotions you
feel today I feel so much love I feel so
much love like I I hear this voice voice
in my head say I love
you like I hear it so much I feel it
constantly it's such a fuing gift and a
blessing ah and so much grief for the
years that I didn't feel that and then I
had to be more than I was in order
to come approximate a fraction of that
um
so it's
today ecstatic joy and and uh gratitude
and when I think back on it it's
um compassion which is not what I felt
before I felt revulsion for myself when
I thought of what had happened to me I
felt disgusted with me with my
body with my
center and um
I I love being me more and more and uh
so yeah I think part of the mix is
the I'm glad you asked because it's what
I want to give to other people whatever
I can related to this
and I think I the only way I can give it
is by speaking to what I lost for a long
time as well and
um I didn't believe in souls
for my whole life you know there was
none of that that word was empty to
me and to have it come back and to First
feel the ache of it coming back the
excruciating pain of like oh the
separation from
this and then the reunion is just like
every day I
uh I like pray and gratitude for that
so I
um that's the that's it's why I bought
the business is is for this to spread
that to as many people as I can
thank you yeah it's really a beautiful
thing that you just shared for for
because I just know that there's people
out there
that are at some stage in that Journey
you know it's a sexual abuse or
something that I think from my very sort
of naive um experience of speaking to
people that have been through that is a
very unique complex range of feelings
and emotions that someone who's not been
through that
might struggle to understand because an
objective Observer says you felt you
felt you done something wrong yeah you
carried the shame you carried the guilt
you carried disgust it doesn't make it
doesn't appear to make sense so by way
of you sharing it you're going to enable
a lot of people who are struggling in a
similar way to make sense of what
they're experience but also to offer
them tremendous hope that at the end of
that Journey however long that might
take them they're going to arrive at
alignment yeah they're going to come
back to themselves yeah the shame was
so underneath it was so pushed down I
wasn't aware of it you know you asked
earlier what were you feeling back then
I said shame but I was it came out
sideways it came way in perfectionism or
seeking approval or trying to rescue and
save other people all the things that we
talked about today it was only through
direct contact
with that repressed feeling of
self-disgust and
responsibility that I was able to move
through it and heal it and uh to sit
with the
worst thoughts that I had about myself
which is like you said you did this you
wanted it you deserve it you you know
all of that stuff that gets uh sounds so
freaking strange even to me to say but
to know that
that's the common response to something
like that
ah man it has helped me understand
people so much more because I think you
know I have my own history and my own
shames but when you see the way that
people internalize the things that have
happened to them as if they're
broken as
if they deserved the misfortunes of
particularly their early life and late
life it's
uh it's so sad and I can see now how how
sad it is but you couldn't have
convinced me
before is there anything that you wish
this this grown man in front of me could
say to that
boy I wish and this that someone could
have I just needed someone to sit with
me someone
to sit and wait Without Blame there was
not
opportunity for an adult to just sit
that I trusted and just
listen so if I could send anything back
to myself then it would just
be an adult to listen to me and today
what I've had to send back internally is
that I just listen to myself I listen to
myself so much more and it's only
through listening to myself that I can
get through all the shame and then
finally hear that voice of I love you
like I love you I love you you you
couldn't be loved
more thank you thank
you there's so many reasons why I feel
so grateful to you I mean
um your
work over the years has helped so many
people make sense of a world that
appears to be very confusing especially
as like a young man but even also as a
young woman um understanding why we're
struggling in our lives can feel like a
Rubik's cube of a bunch of different
factors that we were either given across
the dining room table from our parents
or biologically or whatever and you've
helped us to understand the most
important thing in the world which is
humans what it is to be a human how to
be an effective human in whatever
context how to to be an uneffective
human and to really turn the lights on
to many of the things that we do and
don't do without knowing it at all and
all of this gives us a greater chance of
becoming whoever we want to be and I'm
also grateful to you because your
willingness to share your early
experiences this early abuse that
happened and to reflect on it and to
talk to us so openly and honestly about
the complexities of
it are going to help so many people who
are at some stage in that in that
process to feel seen and heard and to
also maybe most importantly of all offer
them hope that they can come to where
you've arrived at today where you love
yourself thank you man and you have that
love in yourself thank you that what a
gift that's a hell of a
blessing thank
you I highly recommend everybody um if
they want to hear more from you they
have to go and check out your channel
I'm going to put it on the screen and
Link it everywhere because you're on a
journey and I think people are more
fascinated now than ever before to
really follow that journey and
understand what truly Charisma is what
loving yourself is what we should be
aiming at um and I'm I mean having
spoken to you today I'm so I'm almost
obsessed
with your work and what's going to pour
out of you in this season of your life
and I'd highly recommend everybody go
check out the channel it's unbelievable
you're back you you took a Hiatus yeah
but you're back and there's a new uh
there's a a new Essence to you which I
think is incredible yeah um so please go
check out Charlie's work please go check
out his Channel please go check out his
university I'm going to link all of that
below um and is there anything else that
if people want to reach out to you how
do they do it how do they get more from
you yeah we have we have a course called
charism University which is you ask me a
lot about the tips and quite frankly
they're not top of mind but they're in
there you know that's a 30-day program
for people to go through and start to
implement these things in a very
actionable way so if they're curious
they can check that out um just Google
Charisma
University and I think that's it I'm
happy we finally got to the tears
Stephen I was worried that your
reputation would fail
you thank you thanks man it's been a
pleasure it really really has been isn't
this cool every single conversation I
have here on the dire of a CEO at the
very end of it you'll know I asked the
guest to leave a question in the Diary
of a CEO and what we've done is we've
turned every single question written the
Diary of a CEO into these conversation
cards that you can play at home so
you've got every guest we've ever had
their question and on the back of it if
you scan that QR code you get to watch
the person who answered that question
we're finally revealing all of the
questions and the people that answered
the question the brand new version two
updated conversation cards are out right
now at the conversation card cards.com
they've sold out twice instantaneously
so if you are interested in getting hold
of some limited edition conversation
cards I really really recommend acting
quickly this has always blown my mind a
little bit 53% of you that listen to the
show regularly haven't yet subscribed to
the show so could I ask you for a favor
before we start if you like the show and
you like what we do here and you want to
support us the free simple way that you
can do just that is by hitting the
Subscribe button and my commitment to
you is if you do that then I'll do
everything in my power me and my team to
make sure that this show is better for
you every single week we'll listen to
your feedback we'll find the guests that
you want me to speak to and we'll
continue to do what we do thank you so
much
[Music]
oh